5. Trade Reporting
A member firm has continuing regulatory obligations after trade execution.
Trades in equity securities must be reported to the appropriate trade reporting
facility for dissemination to other firms, investors, and regulators. This chapter
will cover the following topics:
◆ Reporting transactions to the appropriate facility
◆ Deadline to report a trade
◆ Appropriate modifiers when reporting trades
◆ Additional regulatory reporting for executed transactions
5.1 Trade Reporting Technologies
The vast majority of trades are executed and subsequently reported through an
exchange, such as Nasdaq or NYSE. For these trades, member firms have no
reporting obligations.
However, for over-the-counter transactions in exchange-listed and OTC equities,
the member firm itself has the obligation to file a trade report. Broker-dealers
use a number of different technological facilities to report trades.
5.1.1 Reporting Transactions in NMS Stocks
For NMS stocks, firms can report trades using one of three facilities:
◆ FINRA/Nasdaq Trade Reporting Facility
◆ FINRA/NYSE Trade Reporting Facility
◆ Alternative Display Facility (ADF)
Although Nasdaq and NYSE operate competing facilities, trades in NMS stocks
can be reported to either location, or to the ADF.
Knopman Note: If a firm’s primary reporting facility is having an
outage the firm may continue to trade provided that it can report to
a secondary facility. Alternatively, firms may stop executing until the
problem is resolved or can route orders to another exchange or FINRA
facility that is able to effectively report trades.
167
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
5.1.1.1 Trade Entry
Most firms use trade reporting software to enter trades into a reporting facil-
ity. For example, trade reports may be submitted to the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF via
the Nasdaq OMX ACT Workstation, which disseminates transaction reports. A
screenshot of the ACT software can be found below.
168
This screenshot shows how the firm can enter the required information in a trade
report, including the following:
◆ Stock symbol
◆ Number of shares
◆ Price of the transaction
◆ Name of contraparty (firm on other side of transaction)
◆ Indication that the transaction is a buy, sell, or cross, and if applicable,
sell short or sell short exempt
◆ Expected settlement
◆ Time of execution (in hours, minutes, seconds, and milliseconds), and
◆ Any necessary modifiers, discussed shortly
FINRA/NYSE TRF and ADF use trade entry screens similar to the one shown
above.
5.1.2 Reporting Transactions in OTC Equities
FINRA operates the OTC Reporting Facility (ORF) for transactions in OTC equi-
ties, which include all equities that are not listed on an exchange, except for
restricted stock.
The rules for OTC trade reporting are almost identical to those for NMS stocks.
Both the TRF and ORF are open from 8:00 am–8:00 pm.
Knopman Note: The TRF and ORF are open from 8:00 am–8:00 pm. The
ADF is open from 8:00 am–6:30 pm.
5.2 Reporting Trades to TRF
In this section, the term TRF includes both the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF and the
FINRA/NYSE TRF. The FINRA rules that govern the two systems are identical.
Knopman Note: FINRA’s Trade Reporting Facility (TRF) provides a
mechanism for reporting transactions (including trades in Nasdaq and
other exchange-listed securities) that occur off an exchange (i.e., not
on the exchange itself). For example, an NMS stock that trades off the
exchange will be reported to the TRF.
The NYSE will not report a trade to the FINRA/Nasdaq TRF. Trades on the
floor of the exchange are reported to the consolidated tape.
5.2.1 Timely Transaction Reporting
The deadline for reporting transactions varies based on the time of day. TRF
hours of operation are 8:00 am–8:00 pm, ET.
All reportable transactions not reported within the required time period must be
marked late, with the appropriate modifier. If FINRA determines a firm has a pat-
tern of late reporting, the firm could be subject to disciplinary action. Exceptional
circumstances that may excuse late reports are determined on a case-by-case
basis but include instances of system failure or unusual market conditions with
regard to a particular security or the entire market.
5.2.1.1 Transaction Reporting When TRF Is Open
When TRF is open (i.e., 8:00 am–8:00 pm), member firms must report transac-
tions to the TRF as soon as possible, but no later than 10 seconds after execution.
If the TRF is unavailable due to a technical problem, a firm can report trades by
calling the TRF Operations Department.
Knopman Note: TRF hours of operation are 8:00 am–8:00 pm.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
169
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
170
5.2.1.2 Transaction Reporting When TRF Is Closed
Transactions executed while the TRF is closed (i.e., between 8:00 pm–8:00 am
the next business day) are required to be reported by 8:15 am—within the first 15
minutes—the next time the TRF is open. For example, a trade executed at 7:00
am on Monday would need to be reported by 8:15 am that Monday morning.
Trades executed between 8:00 pm and midnight must be designated as/of in the
trade report, indicating the trade is being reported after the execution date. For
example, a trade executed at 9:00 pm on Tuesday would need to be reported by
8:15 am Wednesday morning with an as/of notation. The same applies for any
trades executed on a non-business day.
Knopman Note: A trade report is marked as/of when the trade occurred
earlier than the current day (e.g., yesterday) or when reporting the
reversal of a trade from a previous day.
5.2.2 Transactions Executed Outside Normal Market Hours
Normal market hours for equity trading are 9:30 am–4:00 pm, ET. Trades exe-
cuted outside normal market hours must be denoted with a modifier to indicate
this. The modifier will be entered on the ACT software, or ACT-equivalent trade
report screen, that was shown earlier in this chapter. In this specific instance, a
.T modifier must be selected. Modifiers will be discussed in greater detail shortly.
5.2.3 Untimely Transaction Reporting
Trades not reported in a timely fashion are considered late and must include the
appropriate modifier indicating as much. For trades executed during normal
market hours, a .Z modifier indicates a late report. For trades executed outside
normal market hours, a .U modifier indicates a late report (you can remember
.T is timely and .U is untimely).
Example
Party A and B execute a trade at 4:01:23 pm. The trade report is entered at
4:03:01 pm. This report requires a .U modifier because the trade was reported
late (more than 10 seconds after execution).
Transactions that are not reported on the required date (i.e., on the trade date
for pre-8:00 pm trades or on T + 1 for post-8:00 pm trades) must be reported as
as/of trades on a later date. This is commonly notated as T + N.
Knopman Note: A trade executed at 3:58 pm but reported at 4:10 would
get a .Z modifier since it was executed during normal market hours.
Remember, a pattern of late reporting without reasonable justification or excep-
tional circumstances may subject the firm to disciplinary action.
Knopman Note: FINRA considers several factors for consequences for
late trading reporting–including the trade complexity.
5.2.4 Summary of Trade Reporting Deadlines
The chart below summarizes when trades must be reported:
Knopman Note: Candidates should be familiar with trade reporting rules
and appropriate uses of the .Z, .T, and .U modifiers.
Trade Execution Time
Midnight–7:59:59 am
8:00 am–9:29:59 am
9:30 am–4:00 pm
4:00:01 pm–8:00 pm
8:01:01 pm–11:59:59 pm
Reporting Requirement
8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
By 8:15 am on T + 1
Designated “as/of”
Report Time
8:00 am–8:15 am on trade date
After 8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
8:00 am–8:15 am on T + 1
After 8:15 am on T + 1
Trade
Modifier
.T
.U
.T
.U
None
.Z
.T
.U
.T
.U
5.2.5 Form T Reporting Obligations
All members must report trades to the Market Regulation Department on Form
T when electronic submission is not possible. Manual submissions are necessary
when, for example, the ticker symbol for the security is no longer available or a
market participant identifier is no longer active.
Form T should not be used for any other purpose.
Knopman Note: Form T is used to report OTC trades that cannot be
submitted electronically.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
171
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
172
5.2.6 Modifiers for Trade Reporting
Modifiers are required to indicate additional information regarding a transaction.
Trade reporting modifiers are summarized in this table:
.C
.F
.J
.M
.N
.P
.Q
.T
.U
.W
.X
.Z
Cash trade option (i.e., same-day settlement)
Intermarket sweep order
Sub-penny designator
Nasdaq official closing price
Next-day settlement
Prior reference price
Nasdaq official opening price
Timely trade report executed outside normal market hours
Untimely trade report executed outside normal market hours
Weighted average price/stopped stock
Cross trade
Normal-market-hours trade reported late
Knopman Note: A trade report will identify whether a trade was a long
sale or short sale. Note that there is not a specific trade modifier used to
identify a short sale.
Some of these modifiers have unique requirements, as indicated in the following
sections.
Knopman Note: There are various modifiers to indicate non-regular way
settlement:
• .N indicates next-day settlement.
• .C indicates cash settlement, which means the trade settles the same
day that it is executed.
5.2.6.1 .P—Prior Reference Price
The prior reference price (PRP) modifier is used to indicate that the execution
price is based on the price of the stock at a time other than the execution time,
such as a price from earlier in the day. The most common example of the use of
this modifier is for a late execution. For example, if a trader receives a market
order from a client at 10:00 am but forgets to enter the order until 2:00 pm, the
firm would likely honor the price of the security at 10:00 am. This trade would be
designated .P to indicate that the execution price is not based on the 2:00 pm
price.
When using the PRP modifier, the trade report must include both the reference
time (i.e., the time in the day used to price the trade) and the execution time.
For example, if a trade is executed for a client at 11:00 am, but should have been
executed at 10:55 am, the firm should report 10:55 am as the prior reference time
and 11:00 am as the execution time. In effect, two times are reported for PRP
trades. An exception to this is for trades executed within 10 seconds of the prior
reference time. In this case, the PRP modifier is not required.
The PRP modifier is also used to execute on-open orders if the firm does not
receive the opening price information immediately after the open. For example,
a market-on-open order executed at 9:35 am but at the opening price would
include the PRP modifier, a reference price of 9:30 am, and an execution time of
9:35 am.
A PRP modifier is also used to indicate exemptions from Reg NMS Rule 611 (the
Order Protection Rule) for error corrections executed on the same day as the
original transaction.
Knopman Note: A trade report with a .P (i.e., PRP) modifier will include
both the actual execution time and the reference time; the price
reported will be the execution price.
Example
A client places an order to buy stock at 11:00 am. At 11:30 am, the trader real-
izes that the order wasn’t executed. The trade can be executed at the 11:00 am
price with a .P modifier indicating both times.
5.2.6.2 .W Modifier
The .W modifier has two distinct uses:
◆ Stop stock transactions
◆ Weighted average price transactions
.W—Stop Stock: A stop stock transaction is the result of an order that a mem-
ber and another party agree will be executed at a specific price or better and is
subsequently executed at that price. In a typical stop stock trade, the market
maker will guarantee the client a fill at a specific price and then give the client
an opportunity to look for a better price in the market.
Example
Market Maker A guarantees that it will fill a customer order to buy 100 shares
of DEF at $10.75. The customer can then go look for a cheaper price in the
market. Absent finding a price better than $10.75, the customer will return to
Market Maker A and have the order filled at $10.75.
Similar to the .P modifier, a .W modifier will include two times—the actual exe-
cution time and the time the parties agreed to the stop stock price.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
173
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
For trades that are executed within 10 seconds of the agreement to stop, the .W
modifier is not required and only the time of execution must be reported.
The time of the stop stock price can be reported in seconds, since the price is usu-
ally negotiated live, whereas the execution time will be reported in milliseconds.
Knopman Note: It is important to note that a trade report for a stop
stock transaction will include both the time at which the price was
agreed to and the actual execution time.
.W—Weighted Average Price: Occasionally, market makers will execute trades
for clients at a weighted average price or at a price based on a special formula.
For example, to execute a large trade for a customer, the market maker could
accumulate the shares in the open market through multiple executions and then
sell to the client at the weighted average price of all the transactions. This price
is referred to as the volume weighted average price (VWAP).
Example
A customer enters an order to purchase 12,000 shares of ABC, Inc., common
stock. The market maker purchases stock in the open market in multiple
executions, as follows:
Time
 Shares
 Price
 Total Cost
10:01:30
 1,500
 $14.75
 $22,125
10:01:55
 2,500
 $14.90
 $37,250
10:02:25
 1,000
 $14.80
 $24,800
10:02:55
 4,000
 $15
 $60,000
10:03:00
 3,000
 $14.92
 $44,760
Total
 12,000
 $178,935
As indicated, the firm was able to accumulate the 12,000 shares for the
customer in five transactions. The market maker then sells the shares to the
client at the weighted average price, calculated as $178,935/12,000 = $14.91.
In total, six transactions would be reported: five purchases by the market
maker as indicated in the table and one sale by the market maker to the
customer at the weighted average price for all 12,000 shares. Only the sale to
the customer would require the .W modifier.
In cases where the client and market maker have a compensation agreement,
the reported price would be the net price, including the compensation (i.e.,
mark-up).
174
5.2.7 Responsibility for Trade Reporting
The executing party is required to report the transaction. The executing party
is defined as “the member that receives an order for handling or execution or is
presented an order against its quote, does not subsequently re-route the order,
and executes the transaction.”
In a transaction where it is unclear who the executing party is (e.g., one negoti-
ated via telephone), the seller is responsible for reporting the trade, unless the
parties reach a different agreement.
When a broker-dealer receives an order and executes the order as principal, it
is considered the executing party. Likewise, if a broker-dealer receives an order
and executes as agent by matching with another order, it is also considered the
executing party.
If a negotiation exists between the parties, it is possible that the executing party
could be the broker-dealer that initially placed the order.
Example
Broker-Dealer 1 is offering ACME Corp, an OTC security, at 10.52. Broker-
Dealer 2 places an order with Broker-Dealer 1 to buy ACME Corp, but not at
10.52. Rather, it bids 10.49. Broker-Dealer 1 decides to accept the price of 10.49
and executes with Broker-Dealer 2.
In this scenario, Broker-Dealer 2 is the executing party and must report the
trade within 10 seconds of execution. Even though Broker-Dealer 1 initially
received an order, the execution was eventually done against a quote pro-
vided by Broker-Dealer 2, at 10.49.
The responsibility for timely trade reporting lies with the executing party. The two
sides of a trade are denoted as EPID (executing party) and CPID (contraparty).
Knopman Note: In a transaction between a member firm and a non-
member firm, the member firm will always assume the role of the
executing party.
5.2.7.1 Give-Up Relationship
Firms may engage other member firms to report transactions on their behalf.
This is referred to as a give-up relationship. In order to enter into a give-up rela-
tionship, the parties must execute a written agreement and submit it to FINRA.
Knopman Note: A give-up agreement allows one broker-dealer to allow
another to report a trades on its behalf.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
175
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
When a firm gives up reporting responsibility to another firm, the trade is still
reported under the MPID of the firm that traded (not the reporting firm).
The member who has given up reporting responsibility, however, is still respon-
sible for the transaction submitted on its behalf. If the trade is not submitted in
compliance with FINRA regulations, the initial firm can be subject to disciplinary
action, along with the firm who actually reported the trade.
Knopman Note: In a give-up relationship the trade is still reported under
the MPID of the firm that executed the trade (not the reporting firm).
5.2.8 Reporting Capacity
Market makers can execute trades for customers in many different capacities,
including agency, principal, and riskless principal. The manner in which a trade
is reported to the TRF will differ based on capacity.
5.2.8.1 Agency Transactions
For agency trades, where the firm matches up a buyer and seller, the transaction
is reported excluding the commission.
Example
Broker-Dealer A sells 1,000 shares to a client as agent for $37.50 per share, plus
a commission of $10. The trade would be reported as 1,000 shares at $37.50.
5.2.8.2 Principal Transactions
For principal transactions, where the market maker executes out of inventory,
the reported price will exclude any mark-up or mark-down. For purchases by a
broker-dealer, the mark-down is added back to determine the reportable pur-
chase price.
Example
Broker-Dealer A buys as principal 500 shares from a client at $39, including a
$0.50 mark-down per share. The transaction would be reported as 500 shares
at $39.50, since the mark-down is excluded from the trade report.
When the broker-dealer sells as principal, the mark-up is subtracted from the
net price to determine the true sales price of the stock.
Example
Broker-Dealer A sells as principal to a client 5,000 shares at $60, including a
$2 mark-up. The trade would be reported as 5,000 shares at $58.
176
5.2.8.3 Riskless Principal Trades
As described earlier, a riskless principal trade is one where a member, already
having received an order to buy, purchases the security as principal and fills the
existing order at the same price. A trade would also be riskless principal in the
opposite scenario, where the member sells in the market having already received
a sell order from a customer.
Knopman Note: Riskless principal trades are permitted for NMS stocks
and OTC equities, including penny stocks.
Even though a riskless principal trade consists of two legs, it is generally treated
as a single transaction, as the shares instantaneously pass through the firm’s
inventory. Care must be taken to ensure that the volume of the trade is not dou-
ble-counted. Therefore, the trade is generally reported as one transaction.
Alternatively, a riskless principal trade can be reported as two transactions, pro-
vided that one of the legs is identified as a riskless principal trade. The initial leg
of the trade will be reported the same as any other trade (agency or principal) and
disseminated for trade volume information. The second leg will be reported as
riskless principal, but will be identified as a clearing-only report or a non-tape,
non-clearing report. By reporting with these specifications, only the initial leg
will be recorded for purposes of disseminating trading volume. Reporting the
second leg is for informational purposes only.
Example
Broker-Dealer A sells as a principal 100 shares to another member at $40 to
fill an existing customer order. The firm simultaneously buys 100 shares as
principal from a customer at $40, less a mark-down of $1.50. This trade can
be reported in two ways:
1. Report 100 shares at $40, capacity riskless principal
2. Report two trades as follows:
a. 100 shares as principal at $40 (leg 1)
b. 100 shares at $40 as riskless principal, identified as a non-clearing
and non-tape or clearing-only report (leg 2)
If one leg of the trade is executed on an exchange, then that leg will be reported
by the exchange. The non-tape report (the second leg) will be reported by the
member firm.
If a broker-dealer executes a riskless principal trade on behalf of other mem-
ber firms, it is required to submit non-tape reports identifying the other firms
involved in the trade.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
177
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
Knopman Note: Make sure to review how trade reporting works for
riskless principal transactions.
5.2.8.4 Give-Up Trades
As discussed earlier, a give-up trade is when the executing broker reports a trade
on behalf of another broker as if the executing broker actually did the trade.
Example
Broker A gets a buy order from a client but is too busy to place the trade, so
she asks Broker B, who isn’t as busy, to execute the order. Broker B then buys
the stock from Broker C on behalf of Broker A’s client. Although Broker B
places the trade, he must give up the transaction and report it as if Broker A
placed the trade. Therefore, the transaction is recorded as if Brokers A and C
made the trade, even though Broker B executed it.
5.2.8.5 Step-Outs
A step-out refers to the execution of a large order by several firms, each assigned
portions of the trade by another brokerage firm. In step-out trading, each bro-
kerage receives credits or commissions for the share of the trade that it executes.
Step-out trading can also refer to an order that is executed entirely by one firm
but that will then allocate all or part of the position to the client’s account at
another firm. Put differently, a step-out transfers one client’s shares between
accounts at two different firms—there is no exchange of shares and funds and
no change in beneficial ownership.
Example
Safe Asset Management (SAM) holds trading accounts at ABC Brokerage and
XYZ Brokerage. SAM instructs ABC to purchase 300,000 shares of Microsoft,
but to step out of 100,000 shares to XYZ. This means that ABC will buy 300,000
shares on behalf of SAM, but will then transfer 100,000 of those shares into
SAM’s account at XYZ.
5.2.9 Transactions Exempt from Trade Reporting
The following transactions are not required to be reported to the TRF:
◆ Primary and follow-on offerings (however, shelf offerings are reported)
◆ Private placements
◆ Transactions reported on or through an exchange (e.g., NYSE)
◆ Transactions executed via a tender offer
◆ Transfers of securities under the jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court,
178
◆provided that the asset purchase agreement is not based on the
security’s current market price on or after the effective date
Transfers of securities for redeeming an instrument on which the
security is based (e.g., ADRs, ETFs)
Some transactions are reported for the purpose of regulatory fee assessments
but not for publication and dissemination. These are:
◆◆◆Transactions for which the buyer and seller have agreed to trade at a
price substantially unrelated to the current market for the security, e.g.,
to enable the seller to make a gift
Transactions executed upon the exercise of an option or any other right
to acquire securities (e.g., rights or warrants)
Transfers of proprietary securities where the transfer 1) is made in
connection with a merger or an acquisition and 2) is not part of a trading
or investment strategy. Members must give FINRA at least three business
days’ advance written notice of their intent to use this exception,
including the reasons their transfer meets the terms of the exception.
Knopman Note: Be sure to review the list above of which transactions
are exempt from trade reporting. Note that some of these transactions
are reported for purpose of regulatory fee assessment, but not for
publication and dissemination.
Knopman Note: If Party A wishes to give Party B a gift by selling securities
at a price substantially different from the current market price, the trade
must still be reported for fee assessment purposes. These may be referred
to as “away from the market sales.”
Who would report such a trade? In this case, the executing party (Party
A) is required to report the transaction. If, however, only one party to the
trade is a reporting member, the reporting member is required to report
the trade.
5.2.10 Inclusion of Transaction Fees
The price reported in a transaction will always exclude the transaction fee.
Example
A firm that simultaneously receives an order to buy 300 shares with a $0.03
commission and sell 300 shares with a $0.03 commission would report both
trades at the trade price, excluding the $0.03 commission.
Knopman Note: Trade reports do not include transaction fees.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
179
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
FINRA members may agree in advance to transfer a transaction fee through the
submission of a clearing report. This report will be submitted to the National
Securities Clearing Corporation for processing, and it will provide pricing infor-
mation to indicate a total per-share or contract price amount.
Prior to submitting any report, members and their respective clearing firms must
have executed an agreement permitting such transfers and submitted it to FINRA
Market Operations.
Example
A firm sells 100 shares to another firm at $15, plus a transaction fee of $0.03
per share. The transaction will be reported as 100 shares at $15 for publication.
The report must also include additional pricing information to indicate a
$15.03 per-share price inclusive of the transaction fee for purposes of clear-
ance and settlement through the National Securities Clearing Corporation.
180
Chapter 5: Trade Reporting
Progress Check
1.Trade reporting modifiers are used for all of
the following reasons except to identify:
A.
B.
C.
D.
a cash-settled transaction.
a short sale.
a stop stock transaction.
an intermarket sweep order.
2.A transaction that is required to be reported on
the trade date but is in fact reported on a later
date must be marked:
A.B.C.D.T + 1 and late.
T + 1 and as/of.
PRP.
as/of and late.
3.How are transactions in shares involved in a
primary distribution by an issuer reported to
the ADF, on the day of the IPO?
A.B.C.D.With a special IPO designator
Without commission or mark-up
By each broker or dealer who participates
in the underwriting
They are not.
4.Broker-Dealer ABC sells 200 shares of XYZ
stock to a retail client at $15.00 per share,
which includes a $0.05 per share mark-up. The
transactions will be reported for publication
as:
A.B.C.D.$14.95.
$15.00.
$15.05.
$15.10.
5.A market maker executes a trade for a client
at 10:00 am after realizing that it should have
been executed at 9:55 am. Although the stock
is trading at $12.72 at 10:00 am, the market
maker decides to honor the price at 9:55 am,
which was $12.68. Which price will be included
in the trade report?
A.B.C.D.$12.68
$12.72
Both prices
The average of the two prices
181
Chapter 5: Trade Reporting
Progress Check—Solutions
1.
2.3.4.5.(B)
(D)
(D)
(A)
(A)
There is not a specific trade modifier to identify a short sale. A cash-settled transaction
is indicated with a .C, a stop stock transaction is indicated with a .W, and an
intermarket sweep order is indicated with a .F.
As/of indicates that the report was not made on the same date as the transaction. A
designation of late indicates that the report did not meet the time requirement, which
is 10 seconds in most cases.
Transactions that are part of a primary distribution (IPO) or a registered secondary
distribution (other than a shelf distribution) are not reported to the ADF.
The price reported in a transaction will always exclude the transaction fee. Since the
$15.00 price includes the $0.05 mark-up, the price reported will be $14.95 (which
subtracts the $0.05 fees received by the firm).
When a firm executes an order at a prior reference time for a client, the trade report will
include the actual execution price. Note that both the execution time and prior
reference time will be included, but only one price will appear in the trade report.
182
5.3 Cancelled Trades
Occasionally, member firms will enter into a transaction that must be cancelled,
post-execution. When a trade is cancelled, the firm responsible for submitting
the trade report is also required to submit the cancellation report.
5.3.1 Timing for Reporting Cancelled Trades
The timing for reporting cancelled trades can get somewhat complex. It depends
on three factors:
1. Whether the trade was executed during normal market hours or outside
normal market hours
2. Whether the trade was cancelled during normal market hours
3. Whether the trade was cancelled on the trade date or after the trade date
5.3.1.1 Trades Executed During Normal Market Hours
For trades executed during normal market hours and also cancelled during normal
market hours on the same day, the cancellation must be reported within 10 seconds.
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm and then cancelled 15 minutes later, at 3:15 pm.
The cancellation must be reported by 3:15:10 pm.
If a trade is cancelled on the trade date between 4:00 pm–8:00 pm (i.e., after
market hours), best efforts must be made to report the cancellation by 8:00 pm
that day. Otherwise, it must be reported by 8:00 pm on the following day (T + 1).
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 4:15 pm on
Monday. The firm must make best efforts to report the cancellation by 8:00
pm on Monday. If it cannot, it must report the cancellation no later than 8:00
pm on Tuesday.
Finally, if a trade during normal market hours is cancelled on the trade date after
8:00 pm, the cancellation must be reported by 8:00 pm on the next business day
(T + 1).
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 9:15 pm on
Monday. The firm must report the cancellation by 8:00 pm on Tuesday.
5.3.1.2 Trades Executed Outside Normal Market Hours
For trades executed outside the normal market hours of 9:30 am–4:00 pm and
cancelled prior to 8:00 pm on the trade date, the cancellation must be reported
by 8:00 pm.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
183
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
184
Example
A trade is executed at 7:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 7:15 pm on
Monday. The firm must report the cancellation by 8:00 pm on Monday.
If a trade executed outside normal market hours is cancelled at or after 8:00
pm on the trade date, the cancellation must be reported by 8:00 pm on the next
business day.
Example
A trade is executed at 7:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 9:15 pm on
Monday. The firm must report the cancellation by 8:00 pm on Tuesday.
5.3.1.3 Trades Cancelled After the Trade Date
Trades that are cancelled after the trade date are said to be reversed, rather than
cancelled. For a trade cancelled on any date after the execution date but before
8:00 pm, the cancellation must be reported on the cancellation date by 8:00 pm.
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 2:00 pm on
Tuesday. The firm must report the cancellation by 8:00 pm on Tuesday.
For a trade cancelled on any date after the execution date and after 8:00 pm, the
cancellation must be reported by 8:00 pm on the business day after cancellation.
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm on Monday and then cancelled at 9:00 pm on
Tuesday. The firm must report the cancellation by 8:00 pm on Wednesday.
5.3.1.4 Summary of Cancellation Deadlines
The table below summarizes the rules for cancelling trades:
Execution Time
Normal market hours
Outside normal market hours
Any time
Cancellation Time
Trades cancelled on trade date
Same day, during normal
market hours
Same day, 4:00 pm–8:00 pm
Same day, after 8:00 pm
Same day, before 8:00 pm
Same day, after 8:00 pm
Trades cancelled after trade date
After trade date, before 8:00 pm
After trade date, after 8:00 pm
Report of Cancellation Due
Within 10 seconds
Best efforts by 8:00 pm;
otherwise T + 1 before 8:00 pm
T + 1 before 8:00 pm
Same day, before 8:00 pm
T + 1 before 8:00 pm
Cancellation date, before 8:00 pm
Cancellation date + 1, before
8:00 pm
Knopman Note: Candidates should learn the rules for trade cancellations,
as they are likely to be tested.
5.3.1.5 Definition of Cancellation Time
The time of cancellation is the earlier of:
◆ The firm responsible for cancellation informs the contraparty that
the trade is being cancelled, or receives the same notice from the
contraparty
◆ Both counterparties agree to cancel the trade, or
◆ The member with reporting responsibility cancels the trade on its books
and records
5.4 Transaction Reporting to ADF
Other than the 6:30 pm closing time, the reporting rules for the ADF are sub-
stantially the same as those for the TRF. On both systems, the executing party
reports with the same modifiers (.T, .U, .Z, etc.). Transaction reporting to the ADF
is summarized as follows:
Trade Execution Time
 Reporting Requirement
Midnight–7:59:59 am
8:00 am–9:29:59 am
9:30 am–4:00 pm
4:00:01 pm–6:30 pm
6:30:01 pm–11:59:59 pm
8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
By 8:15 am on T + 1
Designated “as/of”
Report Time
8:00 am–8:15 am on trade date
After 8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
8:00 am–8:15 am on T + 1
After 8:15 am on T + 1
Trade
Modifier
.T
.U
.T
.U
None
.Z
.T
.U
.T
.U
All other rules regarding trade reporting to TRF apply equally to ADF reporting,
including:
◆ Modifiers
◆ Form T
5.4.1 Reporting Trade Cancellations
ADF cancellations rules are identical to those for the TRF, except that the 8:00
pm cutoff is, again, moved earlier, to 6:30 pm. The rules are summarized here:
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
185
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
186
Execution Time
 Cancellation Time
 Report of Cancellation Due
Trades cancelled on the date of execution
Same day, during normal
Within 10 seconds
market hours
Normal market hours
 Best efforts before 6:30 pm;
Same day, 4:00 pm–6:30 pm
otherwise T + 1 before 6:30 pm
Same day, after 6:30 pm
 T + 1 by 6:30 pm
Same day, before 6:30 pm
 Same day, before 6:30 pm
Outside normal market hours
Same day, at or after 6:30 pm
 T + 1 before 6:30 pm
Trades cancelled after the execution date
After trade date, before 6:30
Cancellation date, before 6:30 pm
pm
Any time
After trade date, at or after
 Cancellation date + 1, before 6:30
6:30 pm
 pm
5.4.2 Acceptance of ADF Trades
With the ADF software, the non-executing party has 20 minutes to accept any
trades entered by the executing counterparty. Under FINRA Rule 7140, the ADF
system may accept locked-in trades through the following methods:
◆◆Trade-by-trade match—Both parties to the trade submit transaction
data, and the system performs an online match.
Trade acceptance—The executing party enters its version of the trade
data into the ADF system. The contraparty then reviews the trade report
and accepts or declines the trade. An acceptance results in a locked-in
trade; a declined trade report will be carried over at the end of trade-date
processing and will remain in the system but will not be subject to the
automatic lock-in process.
Knopman Note: The timeline for transaction reporting is as follows:
1. Executing party reports the transaction within 10 seconds.
2. Non-executing party confirms the transaction within 20 minutes.
5.4.2.1 Automatic Lock-In
As of July 13, 2015, any trade that remains open (i.e., unmatched or unaccepted)
at the end of its entry day will be carried over for continued comparison and
reconciliation. The system will automatically lock in and submit to DTCC as such
any carried-over T to T + 21 (calendar day) trade if it remains open as of 2:30 pm
on the next business day. The system will carry over any T + 22 (calendar day) or
older “as/of ” trade that remains open, but such a trade will not be subject to the
automatic lock-in process.
5.5 Reporting Transactions in OTC Equity Securities
The rules for reporting transactions in OTC equity securities are almost identi-
cal to those for reporting transactions in NMS stocks. An OTC equity security
is defined as any equity that is not an NMS stock; for example, those quoted on
the OTC Pink.
Restricted equity securities (i.e., unregistered stock) are not included in the
definition of an OTC equity security. As discussed shortly, restricted stock is sub-
ject to different reporting requirements.
Transactions in OTC equity securities and restricted equity securities are reported
to the OTC Reporting Facility (ORF).
5.5.1 Timing of Trade Reports
The timing of trade reports for OTC equities is identical to that of NMS stocks
reported to the TRF. The table is reprinted here for convenience and reinforcement:
Trade Execution Time
 Reporting Requirement
Midnight–7:59:59 am
8:00 am–9:29:59 am
9:30 am–4:00 pm
4:00:01 pm–8:00 pm
8:01:01 pm–11:59:59 pm
8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
Within 10 seconds of
execution
By 8:15 am on T + 1
Designated “as/of”
Report Time
8:00 am–8:15 am on trade date
After 8:15 am
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
Within 10 seconds of execution
After 10 seconds
8:00 am–8:15 am on T + 1
After 8:15 am on T + 1
Trade
Modifier
.T
.U
.T
.U
None
.Z
.T
.U
.T
.U
5.5.2 Other Similarities to TRF
The following sections from the TRF discussion earlier in this chapter apply
equally to the OTC Reporting Facility:
◆ Trade reporting modifiers (e.g., .W, .N, etc.)
◆ Use of Form T
◆ Reporting trade capacity (e.g., agent, principal, give-up)
◆ Reporting trade cancellations
5.5.3 Restricted Equity Securities
Transactions in restricted equity securities under Rule 144A between midnight
and 8:00 pm (e.g., 10:00 am, 3:00 pm, or 7:00 pm) must be reported by 8:00 pm
on the same business day as the transaction.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
187
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
Transactions between 8:00 pm and midnight (e.g., 8:01 pm or 11:00 pm) must be
reported by 8:00 pm on the following business day.
Rule 144A, discussed later, allows for unregistered securities to be sold to quali-
fied institutional buyers (QIBs).
5.5.3.1 Cancellations for Restricted Equity Securities
The cancellation procedures for trades in restricted equity securities are slightly
different than those for OTC equities. They are summarized here:
Cancellation Time
On trade date, before 8:00 pm
On trade date, at 8:00 pm or after
After trade date, before 8:00 pm
After trade date, at 8:00 pm or after
Report of Cancellation Due
On trade date, before 8:00 pm
T + 1, before 8:00 pm
On date of cancellation, before 8:00 pm
On business day after cancellation, before 8:00 pm
5.5.4 Transactions in Foreign Equity Securities
In the context of trade reporting, a foreign equity security is defined as any
OTC equity issued by a foreign corporation. NMS stocks (i.e., exchange-listed)
issued by a foreign corporation remain NMS stocks and are excluded from this
definition.
Transactions in foreign equity securities must be reported to the ORF unless:
◆ The transaction is executed on and reported to a foreign securities
exchange, or
◆ The transaction is executed over-the-counter in a foreign country and is
reported to that country’s regulator of securities markets
Knopman Note: Trades in foreign equity securities must be reported
to either a US exchange or an SRO (e.g., FINRA, via TRF) unless the
transaction is required to be reported to a foreign exchange or regulator.
5.6 Trade Reporting by Alternative Trading Systems
An alternative trading system (ATS) is a trading system that is not regulated
as an exchange but that is a means of matching the buy and sell orders of its
subscribers. Alternative trading systems are becoming more popular and have
greatly contributed to the liquidity in publicly traded securities. ATSs will be
discussed in more detail in later chapters, but for now it suffices to understand
that these systems allow market participants to trade securities.
188
Knopman Note: Similar to a stock exchange, an alternative trading
system (ATS) is any system that provides a marketplace that brings
together purchasers and sellers of securities. An ATS can be characterized
as an “order and quote collection system.”
ATSs must report trades to TRF or ORF within 10 seconds of execution. Reports
must be submitted in accordance with the trade reporting guidelines discussed
throughout this chapter.
Knopman Note: Unless there’s an exemption from trade reporting
requirements (discussed below), an ATS must report trades to the TRF or
ORF within 10 seconds of execution.
Each ATS must have a unique MPID used only to report transactions on that spe-
cific ATS; therefore, a member firm that operates more than one ATS must have
a unique MPID for each one. Member firms are permitted to have two MPIDs
for an ATS if they execute reportable transactions in fixed-income securities, in
addition to transactions in equities.
5.6.1 Exemption from Trade Reporting
FINRA Rules 6183 and 6625 provide an exemption from trade reporting by the
ATS if all the following criteria are satisfied:
1. Trades are between ATS subscribers that are FINRA members.
2. The ATS demonstrates that:
a. The member subscribers are fully disclosed to one another at all
times.
b. The system does not permit automatic execution, and a member
subscriber takes affirmative steps beyond the submission of an
order to agree to a trade with another member subscriber.
c. The trade does not pass through any ATS account, and the ATS
does not in any way hold itself out to be a party to the trade.
d. The ATS does not exchange shares or funds on behalf of the
member subscribers or take either side of the trade for clearing or
settlement purposes.
3. The ATS and the member subscribers agree in writing that the ATS
trades shall be reported by the member subscribers and that the ATS is
not a party to the transaction.
4. The ATS agrees to provide monthly data relating to the volume of trades,
by security, executed by member subscribers. If the ATS fails to report
such data, its exemption from reporting trades may be revoked.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
189
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
190
Note that this rule only grants an exemption from trade reporting by the actual
ATS. The member subscribers trading as counterparties are still subject to trans-
action reporting. Furthermore, the responsibility for reporting the transaction
rests with the executing party, as defined earlier in this chapter.
5.6.2 FINRA Weekly Trading Volume
The SEC requires alternative trading systems (ATSs) to report to FINRA weekly
volume information and the number of securities transactions within the ATS
by security. These obligations are found in FINRA Rule 4552.
Each SEC-registered ATS must file trading information with FINRA within seven
business days after the end of each week. The report must include the aggregate
weekly trading information for each NMS stock and OTC equity security executed
within the ATS during the previous week. FINRA will subsequently publish the
information on its website.
5.6.3 Dissemination of Daily Trading Volume
FINRA Rule 6160 allows ATSs to disseminate their daily trading volumes to the
public. However, the rule also details the exact nature of the reported volumes
and required disclosures.
Any reporting member firm that chooses to publish daily trading volume for
transactions in its ATS must base such volume solely on transactions reported
by the ATS dark pool to the TRF. (As mentioned earlier, a dark pool is a type of
ATS that does not disseminate its quotes to other market centers.) Because of the
exemptions from trade reporting described in the previous section, this volume
will not reflect all transactions in the pool. Therefore, the member firm must
prominently disclose that its website may not reflect 100% of the volume for any
given dark pool and that interested parties must consult all member websites to
obtain a dark pool’s total volume.
Furthermore, a member’s dark pool transaction data will not be included in the
published volume unless the member opts in to have its data included. To do so,
a member operating a dark pool must certify in writing to FINRA that:
1.The member is opting in to having its dark pool transaction data included
in the published data and acknowledges that its data may be presented as
an overall percentage volume only or may be broken down by security, and
2. The member has obtained a separate MPID that will be used exclusively
for reporting all transactions executed within the ATS dark pool.
Knopman Note: Member firms that wish to publish or advertise
trading volumes in an ATS can only publish those volumes that were
also reported to a trade reporting facility. Firms should report trading
volumes as accurately as possible.
5.6.4 Multiple MPIDs for Trade Reporting Facility Participants
As mentioned earlier, FINRA Rule 6160 permits member firms to use multiple
MPIDs for trade reporting purposes. The MPID used to report a transaction must
be identical to the MPID used to post a quote that resulted in execution.
Example
Broker-Dealer A posts a $75.10 bid on 300 shares under its MPID “BDAA.”
Upon execution against this quote, the trade must be reported under the
same MPID of “BDAA.”
5.7 Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT)
The Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT) requires broker-dealers to create a time-se-
quenced audit trail of all events in the life of an order. It allows the national
securities exchanges and FINRA to effectively and efficiently reconstruct the life
of a trade to investigate violations or manipulation and to ensure the general
integrity of the marketplace.
The CAT system, required under Regulation NMS Rule 613, and implemented in
2021, replaced the order audit trail system (OATS) and consolidated options audit
trail system (COATS), which were formerly the audit systems used for equities
trades and options trades, respectively.
5.7.1 CAT Eligibility
Broker-dealers are required to report to CAT orders for NMS securities, OTC
equity securities, and exchange-listed options. An order’s lifecycle information
reportable to CAT includes information on:
◆ Order origination and receipt;
◆ Routing of the order (e.g., to another department);
◆ Order cancellation;
◆ Order modification; and
◆ Order execution.
All order types, whether verbal, written, or electronic, are reportable.
Knopman Note: A CAT report is required for order receipt, order
transmittal to another department, and order execution. For example,
in the situation that a customer places an order by phone at 11 am, the
order is sent by the representative to the trading desk at 11:03 am, and
the order is executed at 11:05 am, all three events would require a report.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
191
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
192
5.7.2 Customer Account and Identifying Information
CAT, in addition to providing FINRA with order information, includes customer
and firm information on all equity and options transactions.
Customer information required to be reported to CAT by broker-dealers includes:
◆ Account number;
◆ Type of account;
◆ Type of customer;
◆ Date of account opening; and
◆ Any identifier for a large trade.
5.7.3 CAT Reporting Obligations
All U.S. registered broker-dealers, regardless of size, that receive or originate
orders in NMS stocks, OTC equity securities, or listed options are required to
report to CAT. The reporting obligation includes all proprietary trading activi-
ties, such as market making. Importantly, there are no reporting exclusions or
exemptions for broker-dealers.
Broker-dealers are permitted to engage a third party to submit CAT reports on
their behalf, referred to as a reporting agent. Before the reporting agent begins
submitting reports, the two parties must enter into a written agreement that
specifies the functions and responsibilities of each party. Additionally, the bro-
ker-dealer must ensure they have a supervisory system in place that is designed
to ensure that all the data reported to CAT by the reporting agent is timely, accu-
rate, and complete.
5.7.4 Member Business Clocks
To ensure uniformity across firms and that each reportable event is accurate, CAT
requires transactions to be reported with a time accuracy of within 50 millisec-
onds. Firms must synchronize their clocks every business day, prior to the open
of trading. If necessary, firms should re-synchronize throughout the day to avoid
drifting beyond the 50-millisecond cushion.
This synchronization must occur to within 50 milliseconds of National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST) or to any time source that has been synced
to within 50 milliseconds of the NIST.
If a firm is unable to re-synchronize during the day, it should maintain a record
of the synchronization problem and notify FINRA. For example, midday re-syn-
chronization could cause a trading system to malfunction, so the firm could delay
synchronization until after the market closes, but must notify FINRA.
This rule applies only to clocks used for regulatory reporting. It does not apply to
all clocks (e.g., an analog clock in a conference room).
Knopman Note: All business clocks used for CAT reporting purposes
must be synchronized every business day prior to the open of trading.
5.7.5 CAT Transmission Requirements
Firms are required to submit daily electronic CAT reports to FINRA. The deadline
to submit reports is somewhat complex.
A CAT “business day” begins at 4:15:00:01 pm EST on one market day and ends
at 4:15:00:00 pm EST on the next market day. For example, 4:15:00:01 pm EST on
Monday until 4:15:00:00 pm EST on Tuesday is a CAT business day. In another
example, 4:15:00:01 pm EST on Friday until 4:15:00:00 pm EST on Monday is one
CAT business day.
All CAT reports must be submitted to FINRA by 8:00 am EST on the calendar day
following the end of the CAT business day. Here are a few examples:
Example
A trade is executed at 3:00 pm EST on Tuesday. The CAT business day ends
at 4:15:00:00 pm EST on Tuesday. Therefore, the CAT report of the execution
is due to FINRA by 8:00 am EST on Wednesday.
Example
An order is modified at 8:00 pm EST on Wednesday. The CAT business day
ends on 4:15:00:00 pm EST on Thursday. Therefore, the CAT report detailing
the order modification is due to FINRA by 8:00 am EST on Friday.
Example
An order is cancelled at 9:00 pm EST on Friday. The CAT business day ends
on 4:15:00:00 pm EST on Monday—the next market day. Therefore, the can-
cellation report is due by 8:00 am EST on Tuesday. This is the same result as
if the trade were canceled anytime on Saturday or Sunday.
Knopman Note: CAT reports are due at 8:00 am EST on the calendar day
following the CAT business day.
Chapter 5
Trade Reporting
193
Chapter 5: Trade Reporting
Unit Exam
1.If an ATS has been granted a trade reporting
exemption, and it then fails to report trading
volume data to FINRA monthly, what is the
penalty?
A.B.C.D.A warning
A fine
Revocation of the exemption
Suspension of trading authority
2.A trade is executed at 3:40 pm EST, but is not
reported until 4:30 pm EST. The trade report:
A.
B.
C.
D.
will include a “.T” trade modifier.
will include a “.U” trade modifier.
will include a “.Z” trade modifier.
will not include any trade modifier.
3.A trade is executed on Monday at 10:30 am EST
and is canceled by the parties on Wednesday
at 3:00 pm EST. The report of the cancellation
is due:
A.
B.
C.
D.
within 10 seconds of cancellation.
by 4:00 pm EST on Wednesday.
by 8:00 pm EST on Wednesday.
by 8:00 pm EST on Thursday.
4.Brokerage Firm A and Brokerage Firm B have
a give-up relationship, in which trades are
reported by Firm A but executed by Firm B.
Which statement is accurate?
A.B.C.D.The MPID of Firm A is used to report
trades
The MPID of Firm B is used to report
trades
The MPIDs of both firms are used to re-
port trades
A special supplemental MPID must be
created and used to report trades
5.A client purchases 200,000 shares of ABC
common stock through BD A, but requests
that 100,000 of these shares be allocated to
their account at BD B. This is referred to as a:
A.
B.
C.
D.
step-out trade.
give-up trade.
not held trade.
stop stock trade.
6.A client places a market order to sell stock at
1:00 pm. At 1:45 pm, the trader realizes that the
order was not yet executed. To make up for the
error, the trader honors the 1:00 pm price. The
trade report will include a:
A.B.C.D..W modifier and indicate only the 1:00 pm
time since that is the time of the price
being honored.
.P modifier and indicate only the 1:00 pm
time since that is the time of the price
being honored.
.P modifier and indicate only the 1:45 pm
time since that is when the trade is exe-
cuted.
.P modifier and indicate both the 1:00 pm
and 1:45 pm times.
7.Which of the following statements regarding
broker-dealer business clocks used for CAT
reporting is least accurate?
A.B.C.D.All clocks located on the premises of a
broker-dealer must be synchronized
All business clocks used for CAT reporting
must be synchronized every business day
prior to the open of trading
All business clocks must be synchronized
to within 50 milliseconds of NIST
Broker-dealers must notify FINRA of any
issues in regards to clock synchronization
194
Chapter 5: Trade Reporting
Unit Exam (Continued)
8.For a trade cancelled during normal market
hours, what is the deadline for reporting the
cancellation to the ADF?
A.B.C.D.10 seconds after the trade is cancelled
30 seconds after the trade is cancelled
By 6:30 pm the same day
By 6:30 pm on the following day
9.For a trade executed during normal market
hours, the non-executing party must confirm a
transaction within:
A.B.C.D.10 seconds.
20 minutes.
by 8:00 pm EST that day.
by 8:00 pm EST the next day.
10. A trade is executed by Broker-Dealer ABC at
3:00 pm EST on Friday. ABC must submit a
CAT report to FINRA by:
A.B.C.D.8:00 am EST on Saturday.
8:00 am EST on Monday.
8:00 am EST on Tuesday.
4:00 pm EST on Friday.
195
Chapter 5: Trade Reporting
Unit Exam—Solutions
1.
2.3.4.5.6.7.
8.9.10.(C)
(C)
(C)
(B)
(A)
(D)
(A)
(A)
(B)
(A)
Failure to report trading volume data on a monthly basis is a violation of FINRA rules
and results in the revocation of the exemption.
.Z indicates a late trade report for a trade executed during normal market hours. Late
is defined as more than 10 seconds after execution. Note that a trade executed during
normal market hours, but reported late after the market closes, still carries a .Z trade
modifier since the trade was executed during normal market hours.
When a transaction is canceled after the trade date before 8:00 pm EST, the
cancellation report is required that same day prior to 8:00 pm EST. If a transaction is
canceled after the trade date, but after 8:00 pm EST, then the report of the cancellation
is due by 8:00 pm EST the following day.
A give-up agreement allows one broker-dealer to allow another to report trades on its
behalf. The trade is still reported under the MPID of the firm that executed the trade
(not the reporting firm).
A step-out refers to an order that is executed by one firm, but then all or part of the
position is allocated to the client’s account at another firm.
.P trade modifier is used to indicate a prior reference price trade. A trade report with a
.P modifier will include both the actual execution time and the prior reference time.
Note that a .W is used to indicate stop stock transactions and volume weighted average
price trades.
All business clocks used for CAT reporting must be synchronized to within 50
milliseconds of NIST or to any time source that has been synced to within 50
milliseconds of the NIST. All business clocks are required to be synchronized every
business day prior to the open of trading and firms must notify FINRA of any issues in
regards to clock synchronization. This rule applies only to clocks used for regulatory
reporting. It does not apply to all clocks (e.g., an analog clock in a conference room).
The deadline for reporting cancellations during normal market hours is the same as for
trade reporting—within 10 seconds.
For a trade executed during normal market hours, the executing party must report the
transaction within 10 seconds. The non-executing party must confirm the transaction
within 20 minutes.
A reportable trade that occurs on one CAT business day must be reported by 8:00 am,
ET, on the next calendar day, or else FINRA considers it late. In this case, the business
day is Friday, so the report must be made by Saturday at 8:00 am.


* Question and answers.
----------------------



KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 3207
1) Which reporting facility is used for trade reporting in OTC equity and
restricted securities?
 A) FINRA TRF
 B) Arca
 C) TRACE
 D) ORF
Answer Explanation:
Members must use the OTC Reporting Facility for trade reporting in OTC
and restricted equities.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.5
Question ID: 2177
2) A trade is executed at 8:00 AM and cancelled at 7:00 PM the same
day. The cancellation report must be submitted
 A) At any time prior to the start of the following market day
 B) By 8:00 PM the same day
 C) By 8:00 AM the next business day
 D) At 8:00 PM the next business day
Answer Explanation:
For trades executed outside of regular market hours and cancelled prior to
8:00 PM on the date of execution, the cancellation report must be
submitted by 8:00 PM that day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3
Question ID: 1921
3) In a last sale report of an ADF-eligible security after 6:30 p.m., what
designation is used to denote that execution took place on a prior
day?
 A) as/of
 B) .U
 C) .T
 D) NC
Answer Explanation:
as/of denotes execution on a prior day - e.g. for trades executed after 6:30
p.m. and reported before 8:15 a.m. the next day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1.2
23 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 34921
4) A broker-dealer's primary reporting facility is experiencing an outage.
Which of the following would not be permitted by the broker-dealer
during the outage?
 A) Route orders to another exchange that can report the trades
 B) Halt trading until the problem is resolved
 C) Document the trades manually and report to the primary facility once
the outage is resolved
 D) Continue to trade provided that the broker-dealer can report to a
secondary facility
Answer Explanation:
All trades must be promptly reported. During an outage of a primary
reporting facility, a firm has three choices: 1) halt trading; 2) report on a
secondary facility; or 3) route trades to another exchange that can report.
Note that this concept is not explicitly covered in the 2nd Edition textbook,
but is covered in the Class Summary and as long as you review the
rationale you will be prepared for this item.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 15678
5) At 10:45 am, a market maker agrees to execute a trade for 1,000
shares of an OTC stock at the close of normal market hours on that
trading day, at a price equal to the last trade price. What should the
trade report show as the time of the trade?
 A) on close
 B) 16:00:00:000
 C) 10:45 pending sale
 D) 10:45:00:000
Answer Explanation:
The trade time must be shown in military-style hours, minutes and seconds
and (usually) milliseconds. This is the time when parties to the transaction
have agreed to all essential terms, including the actual price. If the price is
conditional, the time reported is when the price becomes known the
close of normal market hours (4:00 pm) in this case.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.1
24 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2067
6) For trade reporting purposes, the trade price reported must exclude
 A) A mark-up and mark-down, but not a service charge
 B) A mark-up, but not a mark-down
 C) A service charge, but not a mark-up or mark-down
 D) A mark-up, mark-down, and service charge
Answer Explanation:
In a principal transaction, the reported price must exclude any mark-up,
mark-down, and service charge.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
Question ID: 34924
7) All of the following transactions are exempt from trade reporting
requirements except
 A) tender offer transactions.
 B) a trade in which both sides have agreed to a price unrelated to the
current market price.
 C) new issue transactions.
 D) a riskless principal trade.
Answer Explanation:
Tender offer transactions, new issue transactions, transactions where the
buyer and seller have agreed to a price unrelated to the current market
price (e.g., a gift) are all exempt from trade reporting requirements. Note
that some of the aforementioned are reported to the TRF for the purpose of
regulatory fee assessments, but not for publication and dissemination.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.9
Question ID: 2595
8) Participation in the Over the Counter Trade Reporting Facility (ORF) is
mandatory for any FINRA member that
 A) Carries inventory in OTC stocks or bonds
 B) Has an obligation to report an OTC transaction
 C) Trades for non-proprietary accounts
 D) Is not self-clearing
Answer Explanation:
The Over the Counter Trade Reporting Facility (ORF) is used for reporting
OTC transactions. Usage is required for FINRA members.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.2
25 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2854
9) In the Trade by Trade Match method of locked-in trade reporting,
which party submits transaction data?
 A) Only the Reporting Party
 B) Only the contra party
 C) Both parties
 D) Neither party
Answer Explanation:
Both parties to the trade submit transaction data and the ADF System
performs an on-line match. The executing party is required to report a trade
within 10 seconds of execution. The non-executing party submits for a
match within 20 minutes.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.2
Question ID: 2268
10) What is the best way for an interested party obtain information on an
ATS dark pool's total trading volume?
 A) By consulting the member's web site
 B) By making a formal request to FINRA
 C) By consulting a consolidated monthly report produced by FINRA
 D) This data is not available
Answer Explanation:
Interested parties must consult members' web sites to obtain ATS dark
pool total volume. FINRA Rule 6160 allows ATSs to disseminate their
daily trading volumes to the public. Any reporting member firm that
chooses to publish daily trading volume for transactions in its ATS must
base such volume solely on transactions reported by the ATS dark pool to
the TRF.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
26 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 26128
11) Under the CAT system, what time does the trading day end and
reports due respectively?
 A) Trading day ends at 4:15 p.m. ET and reports are due by 9 a.m. the
next morning
 B) Trading day ends at 4:15 p.m. ET and reports are due by 8 a.m. the
next morning
 C) Trading day ends at 4 p.m. ET and reports are due by 9 a.m. the
next morning
 D) Trading day ends at 4 p.m. ET and reports are due by 8 a.m. the
next morning
Answer Explanation:
The OATS trading day ends (and the next day begins) at 4 p.m. ET and
reports are due by 8 a.m. the next morning. Under the CAT system,
reports are still due at 8 am. the next morning but the trading day ends
and begins at 4:15 p.m. ET.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.7
Question ID: 26129
12) Which U.S. broker-dealers are exempt from reporting requirements
under the CAT system?
 A) non-FINRA members
 B) none
 C) non-market makers
 D) those meeting requirements for small firms
Answer Explanation:
Although non-FINRA members are exempt from OATS reporting, there
will be no reporting exemptions under the CAT system. All US registered
broker-dealers must report.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.7
27 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 20696
13) The time of execution of an OTC equity trade is reported as
4:00:00:004 PM. When must the trade be reported and what modifier
must be used, assuming it is reported on time?
 A) within 30 seconds, .T
 B) by 8:15 am the next morning, .U
 C) within 10 seconds, .U
 D) within 10 seconds, .T
Answer Explanation:
This trade took place 4 milliseconds after the close of normal market
hours. Note that without the millisecond digits, the trade would appear to
be executed during normal market hours (i.e. at the close). However, in
this case it is executed outside normal market hours but before 8:00 pm
so it must be reported within 10 seconds because the trade reporting
system is still open. If the report is timely (within the 10 seconds), the
modifier is .T, if it was late, it would include a .U modifier.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1
Question ID: 3045
14) Who is responsible for reporting a trade cancellation to the ADF?
 A) The member who submitted the original trade
 B) The buying broker
 C) The selling broker
 D) All parties to the trade
Answer Explanation:
The member who originated each trade has responsibility for reporting its
cancellation. This usually is the executing member.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.1
Question ID: 2370
15) In a transaction between a member and a non-member, which party
has responsibility for reporting the transaction?
 A) Contra party
 B) Member
 C) Non-member
 D) Executing party
Answer Explanation:
In transactions between a member and a non-member, the member must
report the trade. Note that the member may be either the executing party
or contra party.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6
28 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2213
16) When a dealer buys shares from a customer in a principal trade, with
a mark-down, the customer's price will be
 A) Above the prevailing market price
 B) The prevailing market price plus a service charge
 C) The same as the prevailing market price
 D) Below the prevailing market price
Answer Explanation:
The dealer's mark-down is added to the execution price to arrive at the
reported trade price. For example, a customer sells 100 shares of ABC to
broker dealer B at $10.00 inclusive of a $0.15 markdown. The trade report
would indicate a price of $10.15.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 2856
17) What time must be stamped on a last trade report for a Stop Stock
Transaction?
 A) Neither the time of execution nor the stop stock price
 B) Only the time of the stop stock price
 C) Both the time of execution and the time of the stop stock price
 D) Only the time of execution
Answer Explanation:
For stock stop transactions, the trade report must include both the
execution time and the time that the stop stock transaction was agreed to.
The only exception is when the execution occurs within ten seconds of
the stop stock price. In that case only the execution time is required on
the trade report.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6
Question ID: 36504
18) A firm executes a trade at 10:30 am that must be reported on
FINRA's Trade Reporting Facility (TRF). The trade must be reported
 A) within 10 seconds of execution.
 B) within 30 seconds of execution.
 C) within 15 minutes of execution
 D) at any time prior to market close.
Answer Explanation:
The TRF provides a mechanism for reporting trades. Trades executed
during normal market hours must be reported within 10 seconds of
execution.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1.1
29 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 15679
19) A trade in an OTC stock occurs on Saturday, June 9. By what date
and time must the trade be reported?
 A) by Monday at 4 pm
 B) by Monday at 8:15 am
 C) by Saturday at midnight
 D) by Saturday at 4:00 pm
Answer Explanation:
Trades executed on non-business days, such as weekends and holidays,
must be reported on an "as/of" basis by 8:15 am the next business day
following execution. FINRA facilities are not open on Saturdays, Sundays
or holidays to accept trade reports.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.2
Question ID: 2878
20) What does the term locked-in mean in context of a trade?
 A) At least one party to the trade accepts the terms
 B) Terms of the trade are recognized by the system
 C) Participants are bound to honor and settle the trade
 D) The system has captured trade report data
Answer Explanation:
Participants have an obligation to honor locked-in trades and their terms
on the scheduled settlement date.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.2
Question ID: 26120
21) A customer buys 300 shares of a stock on Tuesday at 9 p.m. What
special notation does the order receive when it is reported the next
day?
 A) .P modifier
 B) as/of
 C) .W modifier
 D) .U modifier
Answer Explanation:
A trade report is marked as/of when the trade occurred earlier than the
current day (e.g., yesterday) or when reporting the reversal of a trade
from a previous day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1.2
30 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2613
22) Under the Trade Acceptance method of processing, what happens if
the contra party declines the trade?
 A) It is purged on the day following the trade date
 B) It will remain in the System, but will not be subject to the automatic
lock-in process.
 C) It is purged on the trade date
 D) It is carried forward for one business day
Answer Explanation:
If the contra party reviews a Trade Acceptance report and declines the
trade, the report will remain in the System, but will not be subject to the
automatic lock-in process.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.2
Question ID: 3278
23) In which case may a series of individual orders placed by a member
- at the same price, in the same security, and on the same side of the
market - be aggregated for trade reporting purposes?
 A) In no case
 B) If they are executed within the same 30-minute period
 C) With the customer's permission
 D) If they are reported on the same trading day
Answer Explanation:
Individual executions of orders in a security at the same price may not be
aggregated into a single transaction report for reporting purposes.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2
Question ID: 2586
24) FINRA may grant an Alternative Trading System (ATS) an exemption
from trade reporting obligations, provided it is consistent with
 A) Investor protection and public interest
 B) Previously granted exemptions
 C) Trading volume and activity
 D) Regulatory oversight responsibilities
Answer Explanation:
FINRA will grant an exemption to trade reporting only if four conditions
are met, and also if the exemption is consistent with investor protection
and the public interest. In such circumstances the "executing party" to the
trade (typically the seller) is required to report the trade.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
31 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2218
25) What term defines an ATS that does not display quotes or
subscriber orders to anyone?
 A) Wide moat
 B) Closed market
 C) Dark pool
 D) Black box
Answer Explanation:
A dark pool is an ATS in which quotes and orders are concealed. Most
orders are placed directly between large institutions.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
Question ID: 2846
26) To avoid being reported late, must a pre-open trade be reported
within 10 seconds?
 A) Only if execution is after 8:00 a.m.
 B) Only if execution is between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
 C) Only if execution is before 8:00 a.m.
 D) Only if execution is before 7:00 a.m.
Answer Explanation:
A pre-opening trade made before 8:00 a.m. must be reported by 8:15
a.m. EST. A pre-opening trade made after 8:00 EST must be reported
within 10 seconds or else it is late.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 15689
27) A client has filed a written complaint against Jeffrey, an options
trader, alleging that he consistently delayed execution of the client's
orders to buy or sell options contracts. To prove or disprove the
complaint, regulators will review the time sequence options trades
Jeffrey has placed. What system captures this data?
 A) TRF
 B) OPRA
 C) OATS
 D) CAT
Answer Explanation:
The Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT) replaced the old systems of the Order
Audit Trail System (OATS) and the CBOE's Consolidated Options Audit
Trail System (COATS), to provide an accurate, time-sequences record of
orders, quotes and transactions. It allows regulators to recreate events in
the life cycle of trades to review handling, execution and reporting.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.7
32 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2103
28) What term describes a member firm that is a party to a transaction
and is identified by the trade reporting system as such, even though
it does not execute or clear trades?
 A) Affiliated broker-dealer
 B) Introducing broker-dealer
 C) Referring broker-dealer
 D) Correspondent broker-dealer
Answer Explanation:
An introducing broker-dealer contracts with a clearing firm to handle
execution and settlement of its orders.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2
Question ID: 2442
29) Broker-dealer B does a trade with its customer Helen in an ADF
security. The report of this trade is made by
 A) Helen
 B) OATS
 C) FINRA
 D) BD B
Answer Explanation:
In trades between broker-dealers and customers in ADF securities, the
trade report is submitted to the ADF by the broker-dealer.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.1
Question ID: 3281
30) A trade is executed at 3:10 p.m. EST and then cancelled at 4:15 p.m.
on the same day. When must the cancellation be reported to the ADF
on a best-efforts basis?
 A) Within 10 seconds
 B) By the opening of the market on the next day
 C) Within 30 minutes
 D) By 6:30 p.m. on the same day
Answer Explanation:
For trades executed between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. EST and cancelled
after 4:00 p.m. but before 6:30 p.m. on the day of execution, the member
must use its best efforts to report cancellation not later than 6:30 p.m. that
day. Otherwise, the trade must be reported by 6:30 p.m. the next day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
33 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2985
31) Members that operate multiple Alternative Trading Systems (ATS)
must obtain a separate MPID for each
 A) ATS
 B) Trade report
 C) Security quoted
 D) Security traded
Answer Explanation:
The MPID identifies not only the member but also the ATS on which it is
trading, if the member is operating multiple ATSs.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
Question ID: 2615
32) If a last sale report of an OTC transaction in an ADF-eligible security
is not possible, because the ticker symbol is no longer available,
how is the last sale reported?
 A) On Form G
 B) It isn't
 C) On Form N
 D) On Form T
Answer Explanation:
Form T is used to submit last sale reports of over-the-counter (OTC)
transactions in equity securities for which electronic submission is not
possible. For example, a Form T submission may
not be possible if the ticker symbol for the security is no longer available.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.5
Question ID: 3316
33) If a trade in an ADF-eligible security occurs after market hours, must
the last sale report be made the following business day?
 A) Yes, in all cases
 B) Only if the trade is after 6:30 p.m. EST
 C) Only if the trade is after 8:00 p.m. EST
 D) Not unless FINRA permits an exception
Answer Explanation:
The last sale report for trades in ADF-eligible securities executed after
6:30 p.m. must be reported the following business day (T+1) by 8:15 a.m.
EST. Trades that occur after market hours but prior to 6:30 p.m. must be
reported within 10 seconds of execution.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4
34 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 1908
34) Dan wishes to buy 100 shares of DEF. The broker dealer holding his
account executes the trade as principal, includes a $0.10 mark-up,
and submits a timely trade report indicating a price of $5.20. What
will Dan need to pay per share?
 A) $5.10
 B) $5.20
 C) $5.30
 D) $520.10
Answer Explanation:
When reporting principal transactions, any mark-up, mark-down, or
commission is not included in the trade report. Therefore, the reported
price of $5.20 does not include the $0.10 fee Bob pays the broker dealer
for executing the transaction. Inclusive of fees the shares will cost $5.30
per share.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
Question ID: 15675
35) An OTC equity trade is made by a firm located in San Francisco for a
client who lives in Chicago. The time of execution is shown on the
trade report as 14:04:12:146. What time did the trade occur?
 A) 4:04 pm Central Time
 B) 2:04 pm Pacific Time
 C) 4:04 pm Eastern Time
 D) 2:04 pm Eastern Time
Answer Explanation:
On a trade report, the time of execution generally is expressed in hours,
minutes, seconds and milliseconds based on Eastern Time in military
format, unless another provision of FINRA rules requires that a different
time be included. It doesn't matter where the trade takes place or where
the firm and client are located.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.1
Question ID: 37931
36) XYZ Brokerage executes trades for another firm while giving up
reporting of the trade, to the other firm. In which case should XYZ’s
MPID be used when reporting these give-up trades?
 A) Only with the written approval of the other brokerage firm
 B) Always
 C) On a case-by-case basis, subject to supervisory approval
 D) Never
Answer Explanation:
In a give-up relationship, the trade is reported under the MPID of the
executing firm, not the reporting firm.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.7.1
35 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 1924
37) A trade is executed at 6:05:47pm. When is the last sale trade report
due, to avoid being late?
 A) 06:05:57
 B) The next trade day
 C) 07:05:57
 D) 06:06:57
Answer Explanation:
The execution is reported at 6:05:57 p.m. Since this is between 4 p.m.
and 8:00 p.m., it must be reported within 10 seconds or it is late. It also
needs a modifier to designate a trade outside normal market hours.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 26125
38) The purpose of the consolidated audit trail (CAT) system is to
 A) archive order tickets into a consolidated electronic system.
 B) help regulators track events in the trade life cycle.
 C) increase the SEC's jurisdiction over trade processing.
 D) provide more trade transparency for investors and consumers.
Answer Explanation:
The CAT system, created by Regulation NMS Rule 613, allows regulators
to effectively and efficiently tack events in the life cycle of a trade, thereby
enhancing regulatory oversight of US securities markets.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.7
Question ID: 26121
39) The modifier that indicates a Prior Reference Price trade is
 A) .RP
 B) .PRP
 C) .P
 D) .R
Answer Explanation:
The modifier .P indicates a Prior Reference Price trade i.e., one
executed at a time later than a prior reference time.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6.1
36 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2679
40) A customer buys stock from a dealer in a principal trade, paying
$36.12 per share. The trade is reported at $36.04 per share, what
accounts for the 8 cent difference?
 A) Transaction tax
 B) Mark-down or service charge
 C) Mark-up or service charge
 D) Prior agreement between dealers
Answer Explanation:
In a principal trade, the reported purchase price must exclude the selling
dealer's mark-up or service charge.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 26122
41) A customer enters an order to buy 600 shares of stock at 2:46 p.m.
Due to an error, the trade does not execute until almost an hour
later, at 3:44 p.m. The trade report will indicate
 A) the price that prevailed at 2:46 along with a .P modifier.
 B) the actual execution price along with a .T modifier.
 C) the price that prevailed at 2:46 along with a .T modifier.
 D) the actual execution price along with a .P modifier.
Answer Explanation:
A modifier of .P indicates a Prior Reference Price for a trade that occurred
earlier. The report shows the actual execution price and includes the .P
modifier to flag the late trade.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6.1
Question ID: 3160
42) When would a member who has a reporting obligation and is acting
in a riskless principal capacity on behalf of another member submit
a non-tape report?
 A) The other member is a dark pool
 B) The trade is executed without commission or mark-up
 C) The trade is executed outside normal market hours
 D) The other member is not identified in the initial trade report
Answer Explanation:
FINRA wants all participants in a riskless principal transaction (both legs)
to be identified. If the other participant is not identified in the initial trade,
the member with a reporting obligation on the second leg must submit a
non-tape report identifying the member. A non-tape report will ensure that
the trading volume is not double counted.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
37 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 1875
43) Bob wishes to sell 100 shares of DEF. The broker dealer holding his
account executes the trade as principal, includes a $0.15 mark-
down, and submits a timely trade report indicating a price of $15.20.
What proceeds will Bob receive per share?
 A) $15.05
 B) $15.15
 C) $15.20
 D) $15.35
Answer Explanation:
When reporting principal transactions, any mark-up, mark-down, or
commission is not included in the trade report. Therefore, the reported
price of $15.20 does not include the $0.15 fee Bob pays the broker dealer
for executing the transaction. Net of fees Bob will receive proceeds of
$15.05 per share.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
Question ID: 2029
44) What is the deadline for a last sale report of a transaction in an ADF-
eligible security executed at 7:45:00 a.m. EST?
 A) 7:45:10 a.m. EST the same day
 B) 8:15:00 a.m. EST the same day
 C) 4:00:00 p.m. EST the same day
 D) 8:15:00 a.m. EST the next day (T+1)
Answer Explanation:
Last sale reports of trades in ADF-eligible securities executed between
midnight and 8:00 a.m. EST must be reported by 8:15 a.m. EST on trade
date.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4
Question ID: 2226
45) A transaction in an ADF-eligible security is made between two
FINRA members, both of whom are considered executing parties.
Which one must report the transaction?
 A) The buy-side
 B) Neither
 C) Both
 D) The sell-side
Answer Explanation:
In a transaction between members, the executing party must report the
trade. If both parties satisfy the definition of executing party, the sell-side
reports the transaction.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.7
38 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 26124
46) In a riskless principal transaction, a firm purchases 100,000 shares
of stock to fill a customer order to buy the same stock, in the same
amount. This will be reported as
 A) it depends on the price differential of the two transactions.
 B) two trades for 100,000 shares.
 C) one trade for 200,000 shares.
 D) one trade for 100,000 shares.
Answer Explanation:
A riskless principal transaction is treated as one transaction for trade
reporting purposes
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.3
47) Stop stock orders are allowed for
Question ID: 34923
 A) any type of order, provided prior approval is obtained from an
exchange or regulator.
 B) block trades only.
 C) customer orders only.
 D) riskless principal trades only.
Answer Explanation:
Stop stock orders, in which the customer is promised a price for a short
period of time, are allowed for customer orders only. They do not require
exchange or regulator permission.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6.2
Question ID: 1960
48) Acting as principal, a dealer buys 100 shares from a customer at
$28.45 per share, including a 10 cent mark-down from the prevailing
market. The trade will be reported by the buying dealer as
 A) 100 shares at $28.35
 B) 100 shares at $28.45
 C) 100 shares at $28.55
 D) 100 shares at $28.45 with a .10 mark-down modifier
Answer Explanation:
In a principal trade, a mark-down by a buying dealer must be added back
to the trade price. A mark-up by a selling dealer must be subtracted from
the trade price.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
39 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2276
49) Broker-dealers Y and Z execute a trade in Stock X at a price
unrelated to the current market for X. This transaction is reported
 A) By the seller for publication purposes
 B) By the buyer for regulatory transaction fee assessment purposes
 C) Using Form T, due to the trade being executed at a price unrelated
to the current market
 D) By the seller for regulatory transaction fee assessment purposes
Answer Explanation:
If two parties enter a trade at a price substantially unrelated to the current
market for the security, the executing party must report for regulatory
transaction fee assessment purposes. This information will not be
disseminated to the public.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.10
Question ID: 2837
50) What type of Alternative Trading System (ATS) may meet the
conditions for a trade reporting exemption?
 A) One that exchanges shares for subscribers
 B) One that is not fully disclosed
 C) One that clears trades
 D) One that does not permit automatic execution
Answer Explanation:
To qualify for an exemption, the ATS must demonstrate that it is fully
disclosed at all times, does not exchange shares or funds on behalf of the
member subscriber, and does not take either side of the trade for clearing
or settlement purposes. It also may not permit automatic execution.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
Question ID: 26123
51) A Nasdaq market maker receives a customer order to sell 1,000
shares of an OTC equity. Within seconds, the market maker buys
1,000 shares of the same stock for its own inventory, at the same
price. This practice is considered
 A) a violation of the fiduciary duty of care.
 B) a wash sale.
 C) a violation of best-execution rules.
 D) an acceptable riskless principal trade.
Answer Explanation:
Riskless principal trades occur when a market maker offsets a customer
order by executing the same order in reverse for its own account, as in
this example. Such trades are permitted for NMS stock and OTC equities.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.3
40 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2719
52) Last sale reports must include a modifier if the trade is executed
during normal market hours and is reported
 A) More than 10 seconds after execution
 B) More than 90 seconds after execution
 C) More than 5 seconds after execution
 D) More than 30 seconds after execution
Answer Explanation:
The modifier indicates that the last sale trade report is late. For trades
during normal market hours late is defined as reported more than 10
seconds after execution.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.3
Question ID: 34922
53) Which of the following factors does FINRA consider when
determining the consequences of late trade reporting by a broker-
dealer?
 A) The dollar amount of the trade
 B) The complexity of the trade
 C) The size of the trade
 D) The size of the broker-dealer
Answer Explanation:
FINRA considers several factors when determining the consequences of
late trade reporting including the trade's complexity.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 1982
54) Under the T+N Trade Processing method, how long is an open order
carried over, before it is no longer eligible for automatic lock-in
processing?
 A) 2 business days after trade date (T+2)
 B) 3 business days after settlement date (T+5)
 C) 22 calendar days after trade date
 D) 30 calendar days after trade date
Answer Explanation:
Open orders are those that are unmatched or unaccepted. The system
automatically carries forward open orders to the next business day,
through and including T+21. On T+22 the System will carry over any trade
that remains open, but the trade will not be subject to the automatic lock-
in process.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.2
41 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 15674
55) ABC Securities buys 200 shares of stock for a customer on an
agency basis. The price of the transaction is $67.25 per share,
including a commission of 50 cents per share. What price will be
shown on the trade report?
 A) $67.75
 B) it depends on the customer's profile and preferences
 C) $66.75
 D) $67.25
Answer Explanation:
For agency trades, firms should report the number of shares traded and
the trade price excluding any commissions charged. For buy trades,
subtract the commission from the transaction price. For sell trades, add
the commission to the transaction price.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 2620
56) A trade in an OTC Equity security is effected at 10:30 AM and then
cancelled at 6:30 PM. If the broker-dealer is unable to report the
cancellation that same day,
 A) It must report the cancellation by 8 AM the following business day.
 B) It is in violation of FINRA trade reporting rules, and will incur a Minor
Rule Violation.
 C) It must report the cancellation within 10 seconds of the next market
open.
 D) The cancellation must be reported by 8 PM the next business day.
Answer Explanation:
For trades executed between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM and cancelled after
4:00 PM but before 8:00 PM, the firm must use best efforts to report the
cancellation by 8:00 PM that same day. Alternatively, it may report the
cancellation by 8:00 PM the following business day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
Question ID: 2534
57) For a Seller's Option Trade, the trade report must include a modifier
to denote
 A) Identity of the buying broker
 B) Identity of the selling broker
 C) Exact time of the order
 D) Days to deliver
Answer Explanation:
Modifiers add information such as the days to deliver in a Seller's Option
Trade - i.e., a trade with delayed delivery.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.6
42 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2815
58) Broker-dealer N posts a quote to one FINRA system. It then reports a
trade resulting from that quote to another FINRA system. How many
MPIDs may it use in quoting and reporting the transaction?
 A) It depends on the type of transaction
 B) One
 C) Up to three
 D) Two
Answer Explanation:
Quotes, and trades resulting from those quotes, must use the same
MPID.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
Question ID: 2616
59) For an agency transaction, how is the commission reported on the
last sale transaction report?
 A) Dollars per 100 shares
 B) It isn't
 C) Net dollars
 D) Gross dollars
Answer Explanation:
On agency transactions, the trade report excludes any commission
charged.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 1893
60) Jane wishes to buy 100 shares of XYZ when it is trading at $35.00
per share. The broker dealer holding her account executes the trade
at that price and takes a profit through a $0.30 mark-up. What price
will be reported to the reporting facility?
 A) $34.70
 B) $35.00
 C) $35.30
 D) The trade is not reported because it is a principal trade
Answer Explanation:
When reporting principal transactions, any mark-up, mark-down, or
commission is not included in the trade report. Therefore, the firm must
submit the full $35.00 share price to the trade reporting facility, regardless
of whatever fees it charges its clients. Note that Jane will pay $35.30,
inclusive of the markup.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
43 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2240
61) Broker S represents the sell-side in a trade and Broker B represents
the buy side. If both are members and both meet the definition of
executing party, which party must report the transaction, assuming
they do not agree otherwise?
 A) Broker B, because it represents the buy-side
 B) FINRA will notify the responsible party
 C) Both must report
 D) Broker S, because it represents the sell-side
Answer Explanation:
In this situation, where both are executing and both are members, the
sell-side has reporting responsibility, unless they agree otherwise.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.7
Question ID: 2763
62) In a dual agency transaction for 200 shares at $60 per share, with a
commission of $15 to the selling broker and $14 to the buying
broker, what commission is included in the last sale trade report?
 A) None
 B) $15
 C) $14
 D) $29
Answer Explanation:
Neither commission is reported in a dual agency transaction - only the
number of shares traded and the price.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 1894
63) Jane wishes to sell 100 shares of XYZ when it is trading at $35.00 per
share. The broker dealer holding her account executes the trade at
that price and takes a profit through a $0.30 mark-down. What price
will be reported to the reporting facility?
 A) $34.70
 B) $35.00
 C) $35.30
 D) The trade is not reported because it is a principal trade
Answer Explanation:
When reporting principal transactions, any mark-up, mark-down, or
commission is not included in the trade report. Therefore, the firm must
submit the full $35.00 share price to the trade reporting facility, regardless
of whatever fees it charges its clients. Note that Jane will receive only
$34.70 in proceeds from the sale, because the firm charges 30 cents per
share fee to execute.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
44 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2227
64) In a transaction between two FINRA members, which one must
report the trade?
 A) Executing party
 B) Receiving party
 C) Delivering party
 D) Both
Answer Explanation:
In a transaction between members, the executing party must report the
trade. If both parties satisfy the definition of executing party, the sell-side
reports the transaction.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.7
Question ID: 3014
65) Broker Z executes a trade on behalf of its client, collects the
appropriate commission, and subsequently the trade is allocated to
the client's account with Broker Y. This is an example of a
 A) Give -Up
 B) Reallocated trade
 C) Step-Out
 D) Omnibus transaction
Answer Explanation:
In a Step Out, one broker executes the client trade and later on
allocates the trade to the client's account at a different broker.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 2262
66) A trade in an OTC Equity Security was executed at 12 PM and was
subsequently cancelled at 3 PM the same day. The cancellation must
be reported
 A) By 4:10 PM
 B) Within 10 seconds
 C) By 4 PM
 D) Within 30 seconds
Answer Explanation:
Trades in OTC equity securities executed between 9:30 AM and 4 PM
and then cancelled at or before 4 PM on the same day must be reported
as cancelled trades within 10 seconds of the cancellation.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
45 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 1925
67) A trade is executed at 6:45:23 pm via a quote accessed on the ADF.
To avoid being late, when is the last sale trade report due?
 A) 07:45:23
 B) The next business day by 8:15:00
 C) 06:45:33
 D) 06:55:23
Answer Explanation:
The execution is reported at 6:45:23 p.m. Since this is after 6:30 EST the
ADF reporting facility is closed, and the trade must be reported the
following business day by 8:15 a.m.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 2914
68) Simon Corp. is a UK based retailer. A 50,000 share trade was
effected on the London stock exchange by a U.S. broker dealer. This
transaction must be reported to the OTC Reporting Facility
 A) If the transaction was not reported to the London exchange
 B) Promptly after the trade is reported to the London exchange
 C) Within 10 seconds of execution
 D) At the same time it is reported to the London exchange
Answer Explanation:
A foreign equity security is an OTC Equity security that is issued by an
entity organized under the laws of any foreign country. Trades in these
securities must be reported to the OTC Reporting Facility unless the trade
is executed on and reported to a foreign securities exchange.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.5
Question ID: 15687
69) Bernice is a broker who executes options trades. If she sends orders
to the CBOE for execution, in which case will these orders not be
received by the CBOE in a systematized format?
 A) when they are not transmitted electronically
 B) when they are combination orders, such as a spread or a straddle
 C) when orders are not transmitted during normal market hours
 D) when she is trading for her firm's own account
Answer Explanation:
A systematized transmission is one that is electronically submitted to the
CBOE for execution. If an order is received in a non-electronic format,
such as an order telephoned to a floor broker, the order must be input into
CBOE's electronic systems upon receipt at the CBOE. This allows the
order to be captured by the CAT system.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.7
46 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2312
70) Brian calls his registered rep and asks for the NBBO on shares of
EDD common stock. The rep indicates it is $25.64-$25.69 12x4. Brian
places a directed order to sell 500 shares on Nasdaq. Following the
transaction, the trade report will be sent to
 A) TRF
 B) Consolidated tape
 C) ADF
 D) ORF
Answer Explanation:
Trades that occur on the Nasdaq System must be reported to the
Nasdaq/FINRA Trade Reporting Facility (TRF).
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 15676
71) A trade in an OTC equity takes place at 7:36 am. The trade is not
reported until 9:03 am the same day. When is the trade report due,
and what modifier should be included on the trade report?
 A) 8:15 am, .U
 B) within 10 second, .T
 C) 9:00 am, .U
 D) 8:00 am, .T
Answer Explanation:
For OTC equity trades executed between midnight and before 8:00 am,
the reporting requirement is by 8:15 am (within 15 minutes of system
open on trade date). This trade is reported late so the modifier is .U
(untimely). If it had been reported by 8:15, the modifier would be .T
(timely).
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.2
Question ID: 3000
72) Two market makers execute a trade at 4:03:32 p.m. and the trade is
reported at 4:06:15 p.m.
This trade report
 A) Requires a .U modifier
 B) Must include a .T modifier
 C) Need not contain a trade modifier if reported on the same day as
the execution
 D) Should be notated with a .Z modifier
Answer Explanation:
Trades executed outside of normal market hours and reported late (more
than 10 seconds after execution) must utilize the .U modifier.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.3
47 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2264
73) A trade in an OTC Equity security was executed on May 15 and
cancelled at 3 PM on May 16. Notification of the cancellation must be
reported
 A) By 8:00 PM on May 17
 B) By 8:00 PM on May 16
 C) At 8:15 AM on May 17
 D) By 8:00 AM on May 17
Answer Explanation:
When a trade is cancelled before 8:00 PM on any date after the date of
execution the cancellation notice must be submitted by 8:00 PM on the
dated of cancellation. If the trade is cancelled at or after 8:00 PM, the
cancellation notice must be submitted by 8:00 PM on the following
business day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
Question ID: 1976
74) Member firm X executes a trade at 1:45 p.m. and promptly reports it.
X then takes action to cancel the trade on its books at 2:12. It
informs the contra party that the trade is being cancelled three
minutes later, at 2:15. The parties agree to cancel the trade at 2:17.
What is the deadline for reporting the cancellation?
 A) 2:12 + 10 seconds
 B) 2:15 + 10 seconds
 C) 2:17 + 10 seconds
 D) By 6:30 p.m. that day
Answer Explanation:
The deadline is based on the first of three events to occur: cancellation on
the reporting member's books, notification of the contra party, and
agreement of the parties to cancel. If the trade was executed the same
day and the cancellation occurred during normal market hours, the
deadline is 10 seconds later.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
Question ID: 2367
75) A trade was reported at 4:22 p.m. with a .Z modifier. This trade was
 A) Reported and executed outside market orders
 B) Executed outside of market hours and reported within 10 seconds
 C) Executed during market hours and reported late
 D) Executed during market hours and reported within 10 seconds
Answer Explanation:
The use of the .Z modifier indicates that the trade was executed during
market hours buy reported after 10 seconds.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.3
48 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2896
76) Which FINRA member is responsible for the complete and accurate
submission of information into the Trade Reporting Facility?
 A) Designated Member
 B) Primary Member
 C) Contra Member
 D) Reporting Member
Answer Explanation:
Unless the contra side has an opportunity to provide its own trade
information, the Reporting Member is responsible for complete and
accurate submission of information for both sides of the trade.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 37930
77) Brokerage Firm A and Brokerage Firm B have a give-up relationship,
in which trades are reported by Firm A but executed by Firm B.
Which MPID(s) are used to report trades?
 A) The MPIDs of both firms
 B) The MPID of Firm B
 C) The MPID of Firm A
 D) A special supplemental MPID must be created and used for a give-
up relationship
Answer Explanation:
In a give-up relationship, the trade is reported under the MPID of the firm
that executed the trade, not the reporting firm.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.7.1
Question ID: 2263
78) A trade is executed at 5:00 PM and is cancelled at 9:00 PM on the
same day. The cancellation report must be submitted
 A) By 8:00 PM on the following business day
 B) Within 10 seconds
 C) By noon the next business day
 D) By 8:00 AM the next business day
Answer Explanation:
If a trade is executed outside regular business hours and then cancelled
on or after 8PM that same day, the cancellation notice must be submitted
by 8:00 PM the following business day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3.1
49 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2228
79) When FINRA grants a trade reporting exemption to an ATS, which
FINRA member is responsible for reporting the trade?
 A) The executing party
 B) The receiving party
 C) Both
 D) Neither, the ATS reports
Answer Explanation:
Where FINA grants a trade reporting exemption to an ATS, trades are
reported by the member that is the executing party.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6.1
Question ID: 2320
80) To receive an exemption from trade reporting, an ATS must agree to
provide trading volume data to FINRA how often?
 A) At regular intervals
 B) Daily
 C) Weekly
 D) Monthly
Answer Explanation:
All of four conditions must be met for an ATS trade reporting exemption.
One is that the ATS agrees to provide FINRA monthly data on the volume
of trades executed.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
81) A trade is executed at 9 a.m. This trade must be reported
Question ID: 3286
 A) Within 10 seconds with a .T modifier
 B) By 9:15 a.m. with a .T modifier
 C) Within 10 seconds with no modifier
 D) Within 10 seconds with a .U modifier
Answer Explanation:
Trades executed between 8:00 a.m. and 9:29:59 a.m. must be reported
within 10 seconds with a .T modifier
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.2
50 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 3060
82) Broker-dealer T has been told that its last sale report for a trade,
made in normal market hours, is late. This is because the report was
made
 A) After-hours on the day of the trade
 B) More than 10 seconds after execution
 C) More than one hour after execution
 D) The day after the trade
Answer Explanation:
Trades executed during normal market hours, other than on an exchange,
must be reported with 10 seconds of execution. Otherwise, they are
designated as late.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
Question ID: 15680
83) ABC Securities, a broker-dealer, executes an OTC trade for 800
shares of an NMS stock that normally trades on Nasdaq. If the trade
takes place at 7:45 pm, how and when must ABC report the trade?
 A) within 10 seconds of execution on FINRA TRF
 B) by 8:15 am the next business day on FINRA ADF
 C) within 10 seconds of execution on FINRA ORF
 D) the broker-dealer will not report the trade because it is captured on
the NYSE consolidated tape
Answer Explanation:
FINRA's Trade Reporting Facility (TRF) reports transactions in exchange-
listed securities that occur off the exchange. The TRF's hours of operation
are 8:00 am to 8:00 pm EST, and all trades during these hours must be
reported within 10 seconds.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.2
Question ID: 15673
84) ABC Securities executes a trade in an equity security at 1:47 pm
Eastern Time. When must the trade report be made to FINRA's Trade
Reporting Facility?
 A) within two minutes of execution
 B) within five minutes of execution
 C) within 10 seconds of execution
 D) within 60 seconds of execution
Answer Explanation:
Reports for equity trades reported to FINRA's Trade Reporting Facility
(TRF) between 8:00 am and 8:00 pm must be made within 10 seconds
after execution, or else they must include modifier designating a late trade
report.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.1.2
51 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
85) A trade is executed at 5:00 p.m. The trade report
Question ID: 2729
 A) Must be submitted within 10 seconds and include a .U modifier
 B) Must be submitted by 8:15 a.m. on T+1 and carry a .T modifier
 C) Must be submitted within 10 seconds and include a .T modifier
 D) Can be submitted by 8:15 a.m. and only include a modifier if
reported at 8:15 a.m.
Answer Explanation:
Trades executed between 4:00:01 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. must be reported
within 10 seconds and include a .T modifier
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.2
Question ID: 2104
86) What may a member do to have its dark pool transaction data
included in FINRA's published volume?
 A) Affirmatively opt-out
 B) Affirmatively opt-in
 C) Meet trading volume thresholds
 D) File required reports on time
Answer Explanation:
A member's dark pool transaction data will not be included in published
volume unless the member affirmatively opts-in.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.6
Question ID: 2211
87) A trade in an OTC Equity security is executed at 9:45 AM and is
cancelled 12 hours later. The broker-dealer must report the
cancellation
 A) By 8:00 PM the following business day
 B) Before midnight that same day
 C) Within 24 hours
 D) By 8:00 AM the following business day.
Answer Explanation:
If the trade was executed during regular market hours and cancelled after
8:00 PM the same day, the cancellation report must be submitted by 8:00
PM the next business day.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.3
52 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2006
88) How long after trade execution do participants have to accept or
decline a trade executed via a quote on the ADF, or else input the
trade report?
 A) 5 minutes
 B) 10 minutes
 C) 20 minutes
 D) 30 minutes
Answer Explanation:
Participants must either input trade reports or accept or decline a trade
within 20 minutes after execution.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.4.2
Question ID: 1874
89) Bob wishes to buy 100 shares of DEF. The broker dealer holding his
account executes the trade as principal, includes a $0.15 mark-up,
and submits a timely trade report indicating a price of $15.20. What
will be Bob's total cost per share?
 A) $15.05
 B) $15.15
 C) $15.20
 D) $15.35
Answer Explanation:
When reporting principal transactions, any mark-up, mark-down, or
commission is not included in the trade report. Therefore, the reported
price of $15.20 does not include the $0.15 fee Bob pays the broker dealer
for executing the transaction. Inclusive of fees, Bob will pay a total cost of
$15.35 per share.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8.2
Question ID: 1949
90) What is the deadline for last sale reports of transactions in ADF-
eligible securities executed during normal market hours, and not on
an exchange?
 A) 10 seconds after execution
 B) 30 seconds after execution
 C) 90 seconds after execution
 D) 15 minutes after execution
Answer Explanation:
During normal market hours, transactions not reported within 10 seconds
after execution are designated as late.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.1
53 of 54
KnopmanMarks
http://testprep.knopman.com
Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:09 PM
Question ID: 2541
91) When is a riskless principal capacity indicator used to report a
riskless principal transaction to FINRA?
 A) When the trade is made after-hours
 B) When only one side of the trade is reported
 C) If the trade deviates by more than 8.5% from the trailing 5 minute
average
 D) When the trade is reported late
Answer Explanation:
If only one leg of a riskless principal transaction is reported by a dealer
(because the other leg has been reported by another member), a riskless
principal capacity indicator must be added to the non-tape, non-clearing
report or a clearing-only report.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2.8
Question ID: 36503
92) Which type of trades are executed through FINRA's TRF?
 A) OTC trades
 B) Third market trades
 C) Off-exchange trades in listed securities
 D) None
Answer Explanation:
TRF (Trade Reporting Facility) provides a mechanism for reporting trades
but is not used for trade executions.
Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 5.2
