Book/Chapter
------------
7. Equity Markets Securities
Regulations
Traders and market makers are required to operate within the framework of US
securities regulations. This chapter will review a number of those regulations,
including:
◆ Regulation ATS
◆ Anti-manipulation rules
◆ FINRA rules that apply to equity traders
7.1 Regulation ATS
We’ve discussed the Nasdaq, ADF, and OTC systems that market makers can use
to display, review, and execute orders for their own accounts or the accounts of
their customers. In addition to these venues of liquidity, the SEC and FINRA allow
alternative trading systems (ATSs) to register and match willing buyers and sell-
ers in securities transactions. As its name suggests, an ATS offers an alternative
to traditional exchanges for parties seeking to trade securities.
For regulatory purposes, an alternative trading system is a marketplace that brings
together purchasers and sellers, but does not set rules for them. Participants in
an ATS are generally referred to as subscribers. ATSs are typically regulated as
broker-dealers rather than as securities exchanges.
ATSs play an important role in public markets by allowing investors an alter-
native means of accessing liquidity. ATSs are frequently used for trading large
blocks of shares away from an exchange. They are generally electronic, though
this is not required.
Examples of ATSs include:
◆ Electronic communications networks (ECNs)
◆ Electronic trade matching
◆ Crossing networks
◆ Dark pools
◆ OTC Link (the registered ATS for OTC Pink)
231
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
While the trading mechanics of an ATS are not important for the exam, the reg-
ulatory requirements of an ATS are important.
In 1998, the SEC introduced Regulation ATS, which was designed to protect inves-
tors, monitor trades, and resolve any conflicts arising from this type of trading
system.
7.1.1 Registration Requirements
To register as an ATS, an entity must:
1. Demonstrate to FINRA that it is in compliance with Regulation ATS
2. Be registered as a FINRA member
3. Provide NMS stock trade data, such as the prices and sizes of the orders
at the highest buy price and the lowest sell price, to a national exchange
for dissemination, and
4. Provide fair access and reasonable fees
All alternative trading systems subject to Regulation ATS must register as bro-
ker-dealers and file an initial operation report on Form ATS. Form ATS must be
filed at least 20 days prior to commencing operations.
Thereafter, an amended Form ATS must be filed at least 20 days prior to any mate-
rial change in operations. If any non-material information on the initial report
becomes outdated or inaccurate, an amended Form ATS must be filed within 30
days of the end of the calendar quarter.
Once the ATS ceases operations, it must file a cessation of operations report on
Form ATS.
Form ATS requires the following information:
◆ Name, address, phone, and contact personnel for the ATS
◆ Date of commencement of operations (if applicable)
◆ Classes of subscribers (e.g., broker-dealers, institutional, retail)
◆ Types of securities the ATS expects to trade and the actual securities it
expects to trade
◆ Bylaws and other rules of the ATS
◆ Operational details of the ATS
◆ Security protocols of the ATS
◆ Identity of anyplace other than the ATS that will hold subscriber funds or
securities
◆ Identity of direct owners of the ATS
232
7.1.1.1 Exemptions from Registration
The following alternative trading systems are exempt from registration and from
filing Form ATS:
◆ An ATS registered as an exchange
◆ An ATS exempted by the SEC due to low trading volume
◆ An ATS operated by an SRO (e.g., FINRA)
◆ An ATS that is already registered as a broker-dealer and limits trading to
government securities, repurchase agreements (repos), or derivatives on
government securities
7.1.2 Reporting Requirements
Regulation ATS requires that an alternative trading system comply with height-
ened reporting and recordkeeping requirements under Reg ATS Rule 301 if, during
at least four of the preceding six calendar months, 5% or more of the trading vol-
ume of any NMS stock or OTC equity was executed on the ATS. Likewise, reports
are required if 5% or more of the US trading volume in a municipal or corporate
debt security was traded on the ATS.
The heightened reporting and recordkeeping require the ATS to have written
standards for granting access to trading on its system and to maintain and report
grants, denials, and limitations of access.
For ease of explanation, securities that satisfy this requirement are referred to
as qualifying securities throughout this section. This is not a formal term that
will be seen on the exam.
Example
In the first six months of the year, FastEx ATS executed the following trading
volume in shares of ABCC, an OTC equity:
FastEx
 Total
 % Executed on
Month
Execution
 Volume
 FastEx ATS
Jan (1)
 720
 12,000
 6.0%
Feb (2)
 380
 9,500
 4.0%
Mar (3)
 330
 6,000
 5.5%
April (4)
 920
 11,500
 8.0%
May (5)
 405
 4,500
 9.0%
June (6)
 300
 10,000
 3.0%
Because FastEx accounted for more than 5% of the total trading volume in
ABCC in at least four of the last six months, ABCC is deemed a qualifying secu-
rity and FastEx must comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements
with respect to ABCC stock.
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
233
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
7.1.3 Order Display and Execution Access
ATS must disseminate the best bid, ask, and size to an exchange (e.g., Nasdaq)
or a regulator (e.g., FINRA) for any NMS stock that is a qualifying security. An
exception is available for securities in which the ATS does not display orders to
other subscribers or participants.
An ATS is also required to offer broker-dealers the ability to trade against the best
bid or ask displayed on the ATS. The number of shares available to trade for such
broker-dealers is the lesser of the shares available at that price or the execution
size sought by the broker-dealer.
Example
FastEx ATS facilitates trades in ABCC common stock. Over each of the last six
months, it has accounted for 7% of the trading volume in ABCC. Furthermore,
it widely disseminates orders for ABCC to other subscribers. Therefore, it
must publicly disseminate its best bid and best offer in ABCC stock and must
make these quotes available to broker-dealers.
7.1.4 Fees
Some broker-dealers may choose to access an ATS via an exchange rather than
directly. An ATS cannot charge higher fees to these broker-dealers than it charges
firms that subscribe directly, and ATS fees must be consistent with the rules of
an exchange to which the ATS permits conduit access.
Example
FastEx allows broker-dealers to access its quotes via Nasdaq. FastEx’s fees
must be the same for broker-dealers that access its quotes directly by sub-
scribing to FastEx as they are for those that access its quotes via the Nasdaq
system. Further, because FastEx permits conduit access via Nasdaq, all of
FastEx’s fees must be consistent with Nasdaq’s rules on fees.
7.1.5 Fair Access to ATS Quotes
For any qualifying security, an ATS must provide fair access to quotes. Fair access
requires:
◆ Written standards for granting access to trading on its system
◆ Policies that prevent prohibited or limited access to ATS services or the
application of standards in an unfair or discriminatory manner
◆ Recordkeeping of all grants, limitations, or denials of access to
subscribers, with reasons provided for the limitations or denials. This
data must be filed on Form ATS-R (discussed shortly).
234
7.1.6 Reporting on Form ATS-R
ATSs are required to provide ongoing reports to the SEC, on Form ATS-R. The
purpose of these reports is to disclose to the SEC the ATS’s level of trading activity.
Form ATS-R must be filed with the SEC as follows:
◆ Within 30 calendar days after the end of each operating quarter
◆ Within 10 calendar days after it ceases to operate
7.1.6.1 Contents of Form ATS-R
Form ATS-R requires the firm to disclose unit and dollar volume of transactions
in various classifications of securities:
◆ Exchange-listed
◆ Nasdaq-listed
◆ Rule 144A
◆ Penny stocks
◆ Rights and warrants
◆ Listed options
◆ Unlisted options
◆ Government securities
◆ Municipal securities
◆ Corporate debt securities
◆ Mortgage-related securities
For equities, the form must also include after-hours volume in both shares and
dollar amount.
7.1.7 Capacity, Integrity, and Security of Automated Systems
For qualifying securities where the ATS has 20% volume over four of the preced-
ing six months (as opposed to the lower 5% threshold), additional rules apply.
These heightened requirements are only applicable to ATSs that offer order entry,
order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison ser-
vices. Such systems must:
◆◆◆◆Establish reasonable current and future capacity estimates
Conduct periodic capacity stress tests of critical systems
Develop and implement reasonable procedures to review and keep
current its system development and testing methodology
Review the vulnerability of its systems and data center computer
operations to internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural
disasters
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
235
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
236
◆ Establish adequate contingency and disaster recovery plans
◆ On an annual basis, perform an independent audit of the ATS’s controls
and ensure that senior management reviews the recommendations and
conclusions of the audit, and
◆ Promptly notify the SEC of material system outages and significant
system changes
An ATS is exempt from these requirements provided that:
◆ It matches customer orders for a security with other customer orders
◆ Orders are not displayed to any person other than ATS employees, and
◆ Orders are executed at a price that is derived from transactions both
within and outside the ATS
7.1.7.1 Confidential Information
An ATS must have procedures in place to limit disclosure of trading information
only to those employees who are operating the system or who are responsible
for compliance.
Furthermore, the ATS must implement procedures to monitor employees trading
in their personal accounts.
7.2 Disclosure of Order Execution and Routing Information
Reg NMS Rules 605 and 606 are designed to improve transparency by requiring
market participants to provide uniform order execution and routing information
so that investors and broker-dealers can compare execution quality across all
market centers.
Knopman Note: Regulation NMS Rules 605 and 606 require uniform
information on where customer orders are being routed and the quality
of execution being received. Candidates should know both the content
of the rules and the rule numbers.
7.2.1 NMS Rule 605—Order Execution
Reg NMS Rule 605 requires market centers that trade NMS stocks to make pub-
licly available, on a website that is free for the public to access, monthly elec-
tronic reports that include uniform statistical measures of execution quality. A
designated participant (a person or a firm) is responsible for maintaining and
updating the market center’s website.
Market centers include exchange and OTC market makers, alternative trading
systems, and national securities exchanges.
These reports include information, on a stock-by-stock basis, about each mar-
ket center’s quality of execution, including how market orders of various sizes
are executed relative to the public quotes; they must also disclose details about
effective spreads. In addition, market centers must disclose the extent to which
they provide executions at prices better than the public quotes to investors using
limit orders—this is called price improvement. Reports reflect only orders that
are both received and executed during normal market hours.
Knopman Note: Rule 605 reports only reflect orders that were received
and executed during normal market hours.
To facilitate comparisons across market centers, the rule defines basic measures
of execution quality, including:
◆Effective spread, defined as two times the difference between the
execution price and the bid–ask midpoint at the time of the trade
Example
A customer purchases 3,000 shares of ABC stock for 37.82 at a time when the
inside market is 37.78–85. The midpoint of the inside market is 37.815 (calcu-
lated as 37.78 + 37.85/2). The effective spread is calculated as two times the
difference between the execution price and the bid–ask midpoint, so (37.82
– 37.815) × 2 = $0.01.
◆ Rate of price improvement and decline
◆ Fill rates, and
◆ Speed of execution
The statistical information is categorized by individual security and further bro-
ken down by five order types and four order sizes. Users can compare order exe-
cutions for a particular security or for any particular group of securities, as well
as for different order types or sizes.
The five types of orders that are covered are:
◆ Market order
◆ Marketable limit order (i.e., can be executed based on the current market
price at the time of order entry)
◆ Inside-the-quote limit order
◆ At-the-quote limit order, and
◆ Near-the-quote limit order
The four buckets of order size are:
◆ 100–499 shares
◆ 500–1,999 shares
◆ 2,000–4,999 shares
◆ 5,000+ shares
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
237
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
238
Orders for which the customer requests special handling for execution, such as
stop orders, are excluded from the statistical information discussed above.
Knopman Note: Short sales are generally excluded from Reg NMS Rule
605 monthly reports by market centers.
7.2.2 NMS Rule 606—Order Routing
Broker-dealers that route customer orders in equity and options securities are
required to produce quarterly reports on non-directed market and limit orders.
These reports must be filed with the SEC and made available to the public within
one month after the end of each calendar quarter.
Three steps are required to publicly disseminate these reports:
1. Post it on a free website (usually the company’s own website)
2. Furnish a written copy of it upon request, and
3. Notify customers at least annually that a written copy will be furnished
upon request
Customer orders with special instructions (e.g., “all or none,” “not held”) are not
included in these reports. Orders where the customer specifically instructs rout-
ing through a particular trading venue (i.e., directed orders) are also excluded
from the reports.
Knopman Note:
Q: Do order routing reports under Rule 606 apply to all customer orders?
A: No, Rule 606 reports apply only to non-directed market orders and
limit orders.
Note that Rule 606 reports do not include directed orders, since those
orders are filled through the venue of a customer’s choosing.
7.2.2.1 Contents of Order Routing Reports
Rule 606 reports are broken into four sections:
1. NYSE securities
2. Nasdaq securities
3. Securities listed on other exchanges
4. Options contracts on NMS stocks
For each of these four sections, the following information must be included:
◆ The percentage of total customer orders that were non-directed orders,
and the percentages of total non-directed orders that were market
orders, limit orders, and other orders
◆◆The identity of the 10 venues which were routed the largest number of
non-directed orders for execution and the identity of any venue to which
5% or more of non-directed orders were routed. For each venue listed,
the following information must be provided:
• The percentage of total non-directed orders routed to the venue
and the percentages of total non-directed market orders, total non-
directed limit orders, and total non-directed other orders that were
routed to the venue
A discussion of the material aspects of the broker-dealer’s relationship
with each venue, including a description of any arrangement for payment
for order flow and any profit-sharing relationship
Upon request, broker-dealers are also required to disclose to customers the ven-
ues where their individual orders (both directed and non-directed) were routed
during the six months preceding the request. Customers must be notified at least
annually that this information is available.
Knopman Note: A Rule 606 report must include the top 10 venues to
which a broker-dealer routes customer orders along with other venues to
which the firm routes at least 5% of non-directed customer orders.
A sample NMS Rule 606 report can be seen here:
Non-Directed Orders as a Percentage of Total Customer Orders:
 80.20%
Other (includes
Percentage of Non-Directed Customer Orders That
 Market
 Limit
“not held”)
Were:
17.50%
 20.30%
 62.20%
Routing Information Concerning Significant Venues
Total Non-
 Non-Directed
Percentage of Orders Routed to
 Non-Directed
 Non-Directed
Directed
 Market
Significant Venues
 Limit Orders
 Other Orders
Orders
 Orders
1. BATS Exchange, Inc. (BATY)
 23.00%
 20.70%
 14.30%
 21.20%
2. The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
20.00%
 25.80%
 29.30%
 18.00%
(XNAS)
3. Nasdaq OMX BX (BOSE)
 14.00%
 15.00%
 20.00%
 17.60%
4. EDGA Exchange, Inc. (EDGA)
 11.00%
 12.30%
 12.00%
 18.50%
5. NYSE Arca, Inc. (ARCA)
 8.00%
 8.00%
 10.30%
 7.00%
6. BATS Exchange, Inc. (BATS)
 7.00%
 7.00%
 4.80%
 6.60%
7. EDGX Exchange, Inc. (EDGX)
 5.00%
 5.00%
 3.10%
 3.80%
8. Nasdaq OMX PHLX, Inc. (XPHL)
 3.00%
 4.00%
 2.00%
 3.20%
9. CDRO
 1.00%
 1.00%
 1.00%
 1.00%
10. IEX
 0.50%
 0.50%
 0.50%
 0.50%
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
239
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
240
Knopman Note:
Q: What is a good way to remember the difference between the 605 and
606 reports?
A: The 605 report is Monthly for Market Centers. Remember the two M’s
in “Monthly” and “Market Centers.”
A 606 report is the other one: Namely, quarterly for broker-dealers.
7.3 Suitability Requirements
Suitability requirements apply to both recommended securities transactions
and investment strategies, such as a recommended series of purchases or rec-
ommendations to meet a particular goal (college, retirement, etc.). Registered
representatives may not make blanket or blind recommendations to investors
without knowledge of their specific circumstances and facts.
FINRA Rule 2111 defines three different types of suitability:
◆ Customer-specific suitability
◆ Reasonable basis suitability
◆ Quantitative suitability
7.3.1 Customer-Specific Suitability
Securities professionals must obtain from their clients certain basic information,
such as their age, financial needs, existing investments, tax bracket, investment
experience, and liquidity needs. This know-your-customer (KYC) process is also
referred to as customer-specific suitability and must guide any recommenda-
tion a registered rep makes to a client.
7.3.1.1 Suitability for Institutional Accounts
The suitability requirements for institutional accounts differ from those gov-
erning retail accounts. FINRA defines an institutional account as an account
owned by a corporation, such as a bank or an insurance company; an investment
adviser; or any other entity with total assets of at least $50 million.
For institutional clients, the customer-specific suitability obligation is satisfied if:
1.The rep believes the client is capable of evaluating investment risk
independently, and
2. The client indicates it is exercising independent judgment in evaluating
recommendations. Institutional investors can affirmatively indicate that
they are exercising independent judgment on a trade-by-trade basis, on
an asset-class-by-asset-class basis, or for all transactions.
If the registered rep believes the client satisfies both of these items, she does not
need to evaluate the client’s investment profile before recommending a product.
She can make the product available to the client, who in turn will decide whether
it is appropriate.
Some considerations for evaluating the capabilities of an institutional client
include:
◆ The client’s use of consultants, investment advisers, or bank trust
departments
◆ The customer’s general experience in financial markets and with the
specific type of instrument being recommended
◆ The customer’s ability to understand economic features, market
developments, and the complexities of the securities being
recommended
◆ The nature of the relationship between the firm and the customer
If a customer is not capable of evaluating risks, then the suitability requirements
are the same as for an individual investor.
Example
A broker-dealer has a hedge fund client. The hedge fund is in the business
of evaluating securities and does so independently of any recommendation
from the broker-dealer. Because the objective of a hedge fund business is to
understand economic and financial markets as well as complex securities
products and to find and seize investment opportunities, the broker-dealer
does not need to consider any of the fund’s specific suitability requirements
when making recommendations.
Knopman Note: To satisfy the suitability obligation for an institutional
client, the rep must believe that the client is capable of evaluating risks
independently and the client must indicate it is exercising independent
judgment of the rep’s recommendations. Satisfying one of the
requirements is not sufficient.
Knopman Note: If an institutional client suggests a trade that would
take the client over their credit limit at that broker-dealer, the registered
representative should talk to their supervisor about increasing the limit.
7.3.2 Reasonable Basis Suitability
A rep must have a reasonable basis to believe, based on adequate due diligence,
that a recommendation is suitable for at least some investors. This is a very low
standard—it does not require that the investment be suitable for the specific
customer—but instead requires that the recommendation be suitable for some
imagined investor. To make this determination, a rep examines the investment’s
liquidity, secondary-market pricing and transparency, creditworthiness of the
issuer, risks, tax consequences, and costs. If a registered rep does not understand
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
241
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
the transaction, recommending it is a violation of the reasonable basis suitability
requirement.
As it relates to a new issue, each underwriter must separately confirm reasonable
basis suitability for its own customers. This requirement cannot be delegated or
divided among members of the syndicate. However, firms can share due diligence
resources and information, such as third-party evaluations, with each other for
such purposes.
7.3.3 Quantitative Suitability
Quantitative suitability requires that the firm have a reasonable basis for believ-
ing that a series of recommended transactions is not excessive or unsuitable,
even if each transaction in isolation might be suitable. This requires a careful
analysis of the investor’s current portfolio to ensure that its overall investment
objectives are being met in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
Example
A client seeking a diversified portfolio of large-cap US equities might con-
sider an investment portfolio that would track the S&P 500. To execute this
strategy by individually purchasing each stock in the S&P 500—rather than
buying a single mutual fund or ETF that tracks the S&P 500—might violate
the quantitative suitability rules, even though buying each stock was a part
of the investment strategy.
Knopman Note: Summary of important suitability items:
•••It is a violation of the suitability rules to email all of one’s clients with
the same recommendation. This is a know-your-customer (KYC)
violation.
Suitability focuses on whether there is a reasonable basis to
believe that a recommended transaction or investment strategy is
appropriate for the customer.
KYC focuses on knowing the “essential facts” concerning each
customer account, e.g., the customer’s identity, background,
investment history, and sources of investable funds.
7.3.4 Regulation Best Interest (BI)
In 2019, the SEC passed Regulation Best Interest (Reg BI) to enhance standards
of investor protection. It establishes a heightened standard of conduct for bro-
ker-dealers and their representatives when making recommendations of securi-
ties transactions, investment strategies, or types of accounts to retail customers.
In meeting this standard, the interests of the customers must be placed ahead of
242
the interests of the firm and its representatives, and cost and other alternatives
must be considered.
Reg BI raises the bar from FINRA’s suitability standard, described above, which
previously applied to all customer recommendations. It requires that bro-
ker-dealers do the right thing, not just make recommendations that are within
the zone of what is appropriate for the customer.
Recommendations subject to Reg BI include those for personal, family, or house-
hold purposes of retail customers.
SecuritiesKnopman Note: Retail recommendations are no longer subject to
FINRA’s suitability standard under Rule 2111, which continues to apply to
recommended transactions with entities and institutions, e.g., pension
funds, small businesses, and charitable trusts.
Under Reg BI, a recommendation is any communication that could be viewed as
a call to action and would influence an investor’s behavior. Recommendations
covered by Reg BI include those addressing:
◆ Specific securities (to buy, sell, hold XYZ or XYZ fund)
◆ Specific account types (to open an IRA or another brokerage account)
◆ Rollovers or transfers (to move a workplace retirement plan or change
IRA trustees)
To comply with Reg BI, firms must address the four obligations below:
1. Disclosure Obligation—Provide certain required disclosure about the
recommendation and the relationship with the retail customer
2. Care Obligation—Exercise reasonable diligence, care, and skill in
making the recommendation
3. Conflict of Interest Obligation—Establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures to address conflicts of interest, and
4. Compliance Obligation—Establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures to achieve compliance with Reg BI
The disclosure obligation mandates the use of a Customer Relationship
Summary (Form CRS), which must be provided to the customer at or prior to
the earliest of making a recommendation to a customer, placing an order for a
customer, or opening a new account. The relationship summary must inform
investors of:
◆ The types of client and customer relationships and services the firm
offers
◆ The fees, costs, conflicts of interest, and required standard of conduct
associated with those relationships and services
◆ Whether the firm and its financial professionals currently have
reportable legal or disciplinary history, and
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Regulations
243
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
◆ How to obtain additional information about the firm
Reg BI requires broker-dealers to disclose all material facts relating to conflicts of
interest when making a recommendation, including conflicts of interest associ-
ated with proprietary products, payments from third parties, and compensation
programs. Sales contests and quotas around the sale of a particular product are
no longer permitted.
7.4 Large Trader Reporting
On July 26, 2011, the SEC adopted Rule 13h-1, which requires large trader registra-
tion, reporting, and monitoring. This rule allows regulators to identify and obtain
basic information about traders that conduct a substantial amount of trading in
US securities markets. The rule does not limit their trading.
The purpose of the large trader reporting requirements is to allow the SEC to:
◆ Assess the impact of large trader activity on the securities markets
◆ Reconstruct trading activity following periods of unusual market
volatility, and
◆ Analyze significant market events for regulatory purposes
A large trader is defined as a person or entity that, directly or indirectly, includ-
ing in discretionary accounts it controls, effects transactions in exchange-listed
equities and options that:
1. Equal or exceed two million shares, or $20 million in fair market value
during any calendar day, or
2. Equal or exceed 20 million shares, or $200 million in fair market value
over the course of any calendar month
In the case of discretionary accounts, large trader status applies to the adviser
or agent with trading discretion over an account, not to the account itself or to
the beneficial owner of the account.
Large traders—foreign or domestic—as defined above, must register with the
SEC via Form 13H and obtain a large trader identification number (LTID). All
large traders are required to provide their LTIDs to broker-dealers when placing
orders.
Individuals trading for their own accounts, or for an LLC or other entity holding
their own assets, are also subject to the registration requirements of the rule.
To summarize, large traders register with the SEC, get an LTID, and provide it to
broker-dealers that execute trades on the large trader’s behalf.
244
7.4.1 Calculating Options Traded
To calculate options trading for large trader threshold purposes, the options
transactions are converted into a share count and dollar value of the underlying
shares. To determine the value of shares traded, each options contract is gener-
ally assumed to be equal to 100 shares of its underlying security.
Shares Traded = Options Contracts Traded × Option Multiplier (typically 100)
Dollars Traded = Options Contracts Traded × Option Multiplier × Price of Underlying Equity
Example
A customer trades 200 out-of-the-money Google (GOOG) options at $20,000.
Assume Google stock is worth $1,030.58. For large trader reporting purposes,
the dollar amount traded by the customer is calculated as follows:
Dollar Value = 200 Contracts × 100 Multiplier × $1,030.58 = $20,611,600
Based on this calculation, although the customer only traded $20,000’s worth
of options, the trading in the customer’s account(s) meets the dollar threshold
of the Large Trader Rule and would trigger the registration and disclosure
requirements. Notice how the relevant data point is the market value of the
underlying equity, not the strike price.
7.4.1.1 Dollar Calculation for Index Options
The calculation for index options is:
Dollars Traded = Options Contracts × Multiplier × Market Price of Index Options
Example
If XYZ Index has a multiplier of 100, a person who purchased 200 XYZ Index
call options for $400 each would have effected an aggregate transaction of $8
million (200 Options × 100 Multiplier × $400 Price). This transaction is below
the LTID thresholds individually, but would still be aggregated with other
trades for the monthly large trader analysis.
7.4.2 Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Monitoring
The Large Trader Rule requires broker-dealers to maintain and report data when
requested by the SEC. In addition, the rule requires broker-dealers to monitor
whether their customers meet the threshold levels that define a large trader.
7.4.3 Timing and Types of 13H Filings
There are six types of Form 13H filings for large traders:
◆ Initial filing—A person must promptly (i.e., within 10 days) file an initial
Form 13H after its transactions reach the identifying activity level.
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
245
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
246
◆◆◆◆◆Annual filing—After its initial filing, a large trader must file an annual
Form 13H within 45 days of the calendar year’s end.
Amended filing—In the event any of the information in Form 13H
becomes inaccurate, a large trader must file an amended 13H following
the end of the calendar quarter in which the information changed.
Inactive filing—A large trader whose volume dropped below the
threshold levels for the previous full calendar year may file an inactive
status Form 13H, which permits the trader to not disclose its LTID when
placing orders and to no longer be required to file Form 13H.
Reactivated filing—In the event the trader’s transactions exceed the
thresholds, it must submit a reactivated status Form 13H.
Termination filing—A large trader that ceases operations or, in some
cases, is acquired, may file a termination Form 13H, terminating its large
trader status.
Knopman Note: Understanding inactive status is important for the
exam. Large traders must identify themselves using a Form 13H. However,
“inactive status” is available for large traders who did not cross the large
trader threshold at any time during the previous full calendar year.
Once inactive, a large trader need not file Form 13H unless and until its
transactions are equal to or greater than the threshold level.
Form◆◆◆◆◆◆◆◆7.4.3.1 Form 13H Contents
13H requires large traders to provide the following information:
Businesses in which the large trader is engaged (e.g., broker-dealer,
investment adviser, futures commission merchant, bank, pension
trustee)
Other SEC filings it is subject to (e.g., 10-Q, 13F)
Disclosure of whether it is subject to futures regulators or foreign
regulators
Organization chart identifying the parent company and any affiliates in
the securities industry
Structure and governance of the large trader (e.g., trust, LLC, partnership,
corporation)
Disclosure of any general partners (if applicable) and any limited
partners with interests greater than 10% in the accounts of the large
trader
Names of executive officers, directors, and trustees
Locations of all prime broker, executing broker, and clearing broker
accounts
7.4.4 Voluntary Filing and Confidentiality
To avoid monitoring their own trading levels and to aggregate trading activity
across accounts they manage, traders can file Form 13H on a voluntary basis even
before trading thresholds are met, thereby ensuring full compliance with the rule.
Rule 13h-1 imposes monitoring requirements on registered broker-dealers, includ-
ing the monitoring of customer accounts, to determine whether they are compli-
ant with the large trader reporting requirements. Upon request, broker-dealers
are required to report trading activity to the SEC within one business day.
Form 13H filings are not available to the public. All registration information pro-
vided to the SEC by large traders is confidential and is exempt from disclosure
under the Freedom of Information Act.
7.5 Qualified Block Positioner
A qualified block positioner is a type of market maker that is eligible to buy or
sell blocks of stock with a current market value of $200,000 or more. Qualified
block positioners may be engaged by large traders to minimize the effect of their
large orders and maintain anonymity in the marketplace.
To register as a block positioner, a firm must maintain minimum net capital of $1
million. In general, block positioners are sophisticated market makers that are
able to buy or sell large positions while managing their risks, often using hedges
until positions can be unwound.
The block transaction may be:
◆ A single transaction
◆ Several transactions executed at about the same time, or
◆ Several transactions from a single source to facilitate a customer’s
purchase or sale
A block transaction is executed with a single purpose, such as filling a customer
order, and excludes transactions executed to manage the market maker’s own
inventory.
Example
A customer wishes to buy $300,000’s worth of an OTC stock directly from
a market maker. This exceeds the $200,000 threshold for a block trade. If
the broker-dealer sells the stock to the customer in a series of orders over a
period of days, or if all the stock is sold from inventory, then it meets the single
source test and is participating in a block trade. The broker-dealer is acting
as a qualified block positioner, and must be registered as such.
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
247
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
A qualified block positioner must exercise reasonable due diligence to determine
that the block can’t be bought or sold from others on equivalent or better terms.
Also, the block must be bought or sold as rapidly as possible, commensurate with
the circumstances.
Knopman Note: Block positioners are exempt from the locate
requirement for short sales as mandated by Regulation SHO.
Other than “as rapidly as possible,” there is no strict timeframe for executing a
block. But, under FINRA Rule 5340, it is prohibited to pre-time stamp order tick-
ets in connection with block positioning.
Knopman Note: Under most rules, a block trade is defined as having at
least 10,000 shares or a value of $200,000 or more. An exception is the
FINRA definition of a block trade in OTC equities, which is a trade of at
least 10,000 shares and at least $100,000 in market value.
7.6 Miscellaneous FINRA Regulations
A number of additional FINRA rules apply to equity traders and other registered
representatives.
7.6.1 Payments Involving Publications
FINRA Rule 5230 covers payments made in connection with the publication or
circulation of media capable of moving securities prices.
The definition of media is expansive, covering both traditional media, such as
newspapers, magazines, and TV, and new electronic media, such as websites
and social media.
Associated persons may not give, permit to be given, or offer to give anything of
value in an attempt to influence or reward actions of another person involved in
publishing or circulating media covered by the rule, when that media:
◆ Has an effect on the market price of any security, or
◆ Is intended to have an effect upon the market price of any security
Note that “anything of value” can be non-monetary. For example, it can be enter-
tainment, such as a seat at a sporting event.
248
Example
A blogger specializing in the biotech industry contacts an analyst who
covers the industry, asking for her views on a new drug being developed by
GeneticBrands, a public company. The blogger quotes the analyst’s research
in a blog post. That same day the stock rises by 5%. The blogger then offers to
pay the analyst’s airfare to attend a biotech industry conference in Las Vegas,
and she accepts. Is this a violation of Rule 5230?
Yes. Two conditions trigger a rule violation: 1) an attempt to influence or
reward the actions of another person involved in publishing or circulating
media and 2) an actual or intended impact on market prices.
The analyst in this case has not given or offered to give a payment. Rather, the
analyst violated the rule by receiving the payment—thus “permitting” it to
be given. There is little question in this case that the “actual impact” trigger
exists, because the stock increased by 5% on the same day the blog post was
published.
Although blog posts are not explicitly mentioned by the rule, the rule covers a
broad spectrum of media, citing “electronic or other public media, including
any investment service.”
The exceptions to this rule are:
◆ Exposure that is clearly distinguishable as paid advertising
◆ Research reports, and
◆ Communications that disclose the receipt of compensation from an
issuer, underwriter, or dealer in a specific amount
The key takeaway is that analysts should not offer or accept payments of any type
designed to influence market prices through the media.
7.6.2 Trading Ahead of Research Reports
FINRA Rule 5280 prohibits member firms from establishing or adjusting inven-
tory positions in any security or derivative of the subject company ahead of
research report publication. This includes both listed and OTC securities, and
public and privately offered securities. In addition, it requires member firms to
establish internal controls that restrict information flow between analysts and
traders. If other people in the firm obtain advance knowledge of research reports,
they are restricted from communicating with traders as well.
FINRA members are not allowed to alter their inventory positions based on non-
public advance knowledge of the content or timing of a research report concern-
ing the same security. Alter means:
◆ Establish inventory
◆ Increase inventory
◆ Decrease or liquidate inventory
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
249
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
250
Knopman Note: Firms may not adjust inventory positions in any way
based on advance knowledge of research. A firm’s inventory will change
every day through normal market trading—this is permitted. It is
inventory management based on knowledge of the research report that
triggers a violation. As a result, research should not discuss an upcoming
report with the trading desk.
The rule focuses on a member firm’s trading from its own inventory—not on
orders placed for customers. However, if the firm receives nonpublic advance
information from a research report, it must place customer orders on an agency
basis. To place these orders on a principal basis would alter inventory. Note
that a firm is not permitted to alter inventory in opposition to a research report
recommendation—e.g., to sell securities when the research report recommends
buying.
Knopman Note: If the event causing a change in a pending research
report is public (e.g., there is widely reported news that a company
has lost a major client or government contract), a trader could inform
a client of the public news but must remain silent as to any pending
change in the research coverage.
Also, the member firm must establish, maintain, and enforce policies and proce-
dures reasonably designed to restrict or limit information flowing between the
research department and trading personnel. This requirement is usually met by
creating information barriers between research and trading units. The barriers
prevent communication about upcoming research reports and provide manage-
ment oversight of trading activity in subject securities.
If a research report is reserved exclusively for the firm’s internal use and there
is no external distribution, the prohibition against inventory-altering principal
trading does not apply.
7.6.3 Anti-Intimidation/Coordination
To facilitate robust and fair markets, broker-dealers, market makers, and mar-
ket participants must set their quotes independently. Regulations prohibit any
attempt to coordinate prices, quotes, or trade reports between two or more
members, associated persons, and investors, or with anyone else. This also pro-
hibits members from directing, requesting, or threatening another member to
alter a price or quote.
FINRA Rule 5240’s anti-intimidation provisions are specifically designed to pre-
vent firms from intimidating other firms to adjust or maintain a particular price
or quote. For this purpose, intimidation may include:
◆ Threats
◆ Harassment
◆ Coercion
◆ Refusal to trade
◆ Retaliation
◆ Discouragement of competitive activities
Brokerage firms should document written supervisory procedures to assure com-
pliance with an anti-intimidation/coordination policy.
Example
Brokerage Firm A, an OTC market maker, believes that Firm B, another mar-
ket maker, is backing away from its firm quotes. Firm A decides as a matter
of policy that it no longer wishes to trade with Firm B, as it has a right to do.
However, if Firm A contacts Firm C and attempts to coordinate its participa-
tion in a boycott of Firm B, it is engaged in a prohibited coordination against
Firm B. Firm A’s best response would be to contact Firm B to discuss the
backing away and, if that is unsuccessful, to bring the matter to the appro-
priate regulator.
The prohibitions against intimidation and coordination do not limit the ability
of a member or an associated person to:
◆ Unilaterally set its own bid or ask quotes, quote sizes, or bid–ask spreads
◆ Unilaterally determine the number of shares it is willing to buy or sell
◆ Communicate its own bid or ask quotes for the purpose of exploring
interest, negotiating a purchase or sale, retaining an agent for a purchase
or sale, or seeking to be retained as an agent
◆ Engage in an underwriting or syndicate as permitted by law
◆ Take unilateral action or make a unilateral decision regarding the market
makers with which it will trade and the terms on which it will trade
◆ Deliver an order to another member for handling
7.6.4 Order-Splitting and Trade-Shredding
Order-splitting, or trade/tape-shredding, is the practice of:
◆ Splitting one order into multiple smaller orders for execution, or
◆ Splitting one order execution into multiple smaller executions for trade
reporting
FINRA Rule 5290 prohibits order-splitting or trade/tape-shredding for the pri-
mary purpose of increasing monetary payments (e.g., commissions) or in-kind
payments (e.g., soft dollars).
In-kind payments include credits, commissions, gratuities, rebates and fees, or
anything else of value given to a member or an associated person.
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
251
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
252
Example
A 1,000-share order is split into 10 orders of 100 shares so that a member can
earn a higher rebate because the exchange the member plans to route the
order to pays a per-trade rebate. To split orders so that the firm can earn a
higher rebate is prohibited.
The rule was adopted in 2006 because FINRA was concerned about the growing
practice of using trade/tape-shredding to increase a member’s share of market
data revenues under joint-industry plans. In such a plan, the participants agree
to share revenues with brokers that route orders.
If a trader must split an order or trade report for a valid reason, it is important
to document the reason and indicate the purpose of the split was not remuner-
ative to the broker-dealer. One common reason cited by traders is that smaller
orders can be filled faster. However, this reason applies only to order execution,
not trade reporting.
Example
A 1,000-share order is split into 10 orders of 100 shares because the market is
thin and the trader believes the client will receive better and faster execution
with 10 small orders rather than one large order. This is permissible.
Knopman Note: A trader is allowed to split an order for a valid reason,
such as faster execution, but trade-shredding to generate additional
commissions is prohibited.
7.6.5 Trading Otherwise Than on an Exchange
Under FINRA Rule 6110, members are required to report any transaction in
NMS stocks that are effected otherwise than on or through a national securi-
ties exchange (e.g., OTC). The idea here is that if a transaction is effected on an
exchange (e.g., Nasdaq) it will be locked-in and automatically reported to the
appropriate reporting facility. If, on the other hand, the trade is not effected on
an exchange, the trade participants are responsible for reporting the transac-
tion within the appropriate timeframe. The determination of what constitutes
on or through a particular national securities exchange is determined by that
exchange in accordance with all applicable statutes, rules and regulations, and
with any necessary SEC approval.
Broker-dealers must be prudent in executing and reporting transactions, as
they may only do so on SEC-registered exchanges or exchanges that are exempt
from registration. Put differently, if a broker-dealer trades on an exchange, the
exchange must be registered or exempt; if the trade is off an exchange, that is OK
too. What is not allowed is trading on an unregistered, non-exempt exchange.
7.6.5.1 National Securities Exchanges
When a new exchange is formed, it must fill out an application and register its
constitution, bylaws, and articles of incorporation with the SEC. The application
will contain the rules of the exchange and any other required information. When
the SEC reviews the exchange application, it will make sure that the rules of the
exchange are accompanied by an enforceable system of compliance and that
these rules will prevent fraudulent and manipulative actions and promote fair
and equitable trading practices.
SecuritiesAn exchange cannot grant membership to any broker-dealer that is not registered
with the SEC. Moreover, exchange membership must be denied to anyone not asso-
ciated with a broker-dealer or anyone subject to a statutory disqualification that
prevents association with a self-regulatory organization (SRO). If an exchange finds
that a member has been expelled or suspended by another SRO, it may immediately
suspend that individual. The exchange is required to either limit the activities of or
suspend any member that is experiencing financial or operational difficulties that
would lead to the harm of investors, other members, creditors, or the exchange itself.
7.6.6 Publication of Transactions and Quotations
FINRA Rule 5210 (and Nasdaq Rule 3310) prohibits a member firm from circulat-
ing communications of any kind that report transactions in a security unless the
member believes that the transaction was a bona fide transaction in the security.
Examples of communications to which the rule applies are printed or online
notices, circulars, advertisements, newspaper articles, or notices via an invest-
ment service. One common application of this rule is when market makers wish
to publish their market share in certain securities for a daily or weekly period or
longer: The market maker is prohibited from advertising more trading volume
in a security than the amount actually executed.
Example
Broker-Dealer B wants to advertise the number of shares it traded in XYZ,
Inc., common stock today. So far today, it has traded 175,000 shares in the
company. The maximum number of shares it can advertise that it has traded
is 175,000 shares. It cannot advertise even one share more than that amount.
In conclusion, broker-dealers can only publish trading volumes reflecting the
actual shares traded, or less. They cannot publish or advertise trading volume in
excess of that number.
Similarly, the rule requires firms to have procedures in place to prevent a pattern
of self-trades. These are trades where both sides originate from the same firm
and involve no change in beneficial ownership. This includes trades that result
from unrelated algorithms or trading strategies.
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Regulations
253
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
Knopman Note: Broker-dealers must have procedures in place to review
and prevent a pattern of self-trades. Assuming procedures are in place,
a self-trade is not a violation if it was unintentional. For example, if the
trade occurred between legitimately distinct trading desks and was not
done merely to create the illusion of activity in a security, it would not be
a violation.
7.7 Penny Stocks
A penny stock is an unlisted security trading for less than $5 per share. Most
penny stocks trade on the OTC Pink, but the definition also includes equity secu-
rities of private companies with no active trading market. Trading, market-mak-
ing, and soliciting penny stocks is subject to heightened regulatory requirements
because of the higher risk of fraud and manipulation historically associated with
these securities.
It is each broker-dealer’s responsibility to determine whether a security is a
penny stock and, if so, to comply with all relevant requirements governing the
quoting and trading of penny stocks.
When considering whether a stock is a penny stock, be sure to evaluate both
criteria:
1. A price of less than $5, and
2. Unlisted (i.e., not listed on NYSE or Nasdaq)
Example
When big companies fall on hard times, their shares may fall below $5 per
share. For example, in November of 2008, shares of Ford Motor briefly fell
below $2 per share. However, Ford was never defined as a penny stock because
it remained listed on the NYSE.
Knopman Note: In general, penny stocks are defined as OTC equities
worth less than $5 per share. However, companies with any of the
following financial statistics are NOT penny stocks: Net tangible assets in
excess of $2MM (or $5MM if in business less than three years) or average
revenue of at least $6MM for the last three years.
This section discusses the quoting and trading of penny stocks, including:
◆ Special disclosure requirements for trading penny stocks
◆ Requirements for initiating and resuming quotes
254
7.7.1 The Penny Stock Disclosure
Unless a penny stock transaction is exempt (discussed shortly), broker-dealers
must provide a customer with a penny stock risk disclosure document, also
called a Rule 15g-2 Disclosure, prior to the customer’s trading of penny stocks.
The disclosure must include the broker’s name, address, phone number, and
email address, and the broker must obtain from the customer a signed and
dated acknowledgment of receipt of the document. Note that the disclosure
documents themselves must be signed. It’s not sufficient for a customer to sign
for receipt of a package containing the document.
SecuritiesKnopman Note: The client must sign and return a penny stock risk
disclosure document prior to their first penny stock trade.
The disclosure document is designed to alert the customer to risks associated
with penny stocks. It’s not a requirement for the broker-dealer or registered rep
to explain the penny stock disclosures to customers. A copy of the customer
acknowledgment must be retained by the broker-dealer for at least three years,
and kept in an easily accessible place for the first two years.
The disclosure document contains specific language required by the SEC pertain-
ing to the risks of penny stocks, information a customer is required to receive
about the specific security, and a warning regarding a broker-dealer’s motiva-
tions for selling penny stocks.
The disclosure must be sent, by mail or email, at least two business days before
any penny stock transactions. This cooling-off period provides the client addi-
tional time to consider the proposed transaction.
Example
Donna, an associated person at a broker-dealer, calls on a client to discuss a
penny stock opportunity. The client likes the investment, and Donna sends the
penny stock disclosure on Tuesday. The client can place the trade on Thursday,
the second business day after the disclosure document was delivered.
7.7.2 Disclosure for Specific Trades
Rule 15g-3 requires a broker-dealer to disclose specific information about a pro-
posed penny stock transaction prior to execution.
7.7.2.1 Current Quote
Rule 15g-3 of the ’34 Act requires broker-dealers to disclose, orally or in writing, to
customers the inside quote for a penny stock, when one exists. The inside quote
is defined as the best bid–ask at any time in which at least two market makers
are contemporaneously displaying quotes.
If there are fewer than two market makers, the required quotation disclosures are:
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Regulations
255
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
256
◆For transactions on a principal basis—The dealer must disclose its
current offer (bid) price for the security if:
• The dealer has had three bona fide transactions to other dealers
consistently at the same offer price, and
• The dealer reasonably believes the price accurately reflects the price
it would offer to another dealer for a round lot
In summary, if a firm is dealing on a principal basis, the dealer must offer custom-
ers a price that is the same as very recent interdealer prices. The broker-dealer
also must be prepared to document this price.
If a broker-dealer’s prices do not satisfy these criteria, the firm must disclose
1) that it has not made interdealer trades of the penny stock consistently at its
quoted price and 2) the specific price at which it last purchased the penny stock
from another dealer in a bona fide transaction.
◆For agency transactions where there is no quote—The broker-dealer
must disclose the best independent interdealer prices for the penny
stock, obtained through reasonable due diligence. Due diligence under
SEC Rule 15g-3 can be demonstrated by obtaining quotes from at least
three market makers.
In all cases, the broker-dealer must disclose the number of shares to which
any quote applies. The initial penny stock quote disclosure must be provided
to the customer, orally or in writing, before the transaction. A quote disclosure
must also be provided in writing on or before the trade confirmation. Records
confirming these written disclosures must be maintained.
7.7.2.2 Broker-Dealer Compensation
In addition to the quote disclosure, broker-dealers must disclose to customers
the aggregate amount of compensation the broker-dealer will receive in con-
nection with the penny stock transaction. Two basic requirements relate to the
timing and manner of this disclosure:
◆◆Timing—The initial disclosure may be provided orally or in writing, but
it must be given to the customer before the transaction. Then, written
disclosure must be given before or with the trade confirmation. A single
written disclosure, delivered prior to the transaction, satisfies both
requirements.
Manner—In an agency transaction, the amount of compensation
disclosed is the commission received from the customer. In a principal
transaction, it is the difference between the price charged to the
customer and the prevailing market price charged by a market maker
who works in an active and competitive market—i.e., the reference
market maker.
An active and competitive market is one where the aggregate number of trans-
actions by the market maker in the same penny stock, over the last five business
days, is less than 20% of aggregate transactions in the same stock.
Example
A broker-dealer sells a penny stock to a customer from its inventory, in a
principal transaction, at $3.50 per share. The best offer in this stock is at $3.25.
In the preceding five days, the broker-dealer has handled 15% of aggregate
transactions in this stock. This is an active and competitive market. The $3.25
is a valid benchmark, and compensation to the broker-dealer is 25 cents per
share ($3.50 less $3.25).
Securities7.7.2.3 Disclosure of Associated Person Compensation
Just as broker-dealers must disclose the firm’s compensation from penny stock
transactions, they must also disclose specific cash compensation paid to reps
selling the security. This disclosure must be made at or prior to receipt of the
order.
The disclosure must include cash compensation that has been or will be received.
Separate disclosure must be made of the source and amount of any associated
compensation made by someone other than the broker-dealer in connection
with the transaction.
Promoters of penny stocks may offer cash inducements to registered represen-
tatives. For example, a promoter may offer a rep $1,000 to aggressively market a
penny stock to clients. Such compensation is “in connection with the transaction”
and must be disclosed, by source and amount. The source, in this case, is the
promoter.
The ’34 Act defines a contingent compensation arrangement as an agreement
to pay cash or other compensation to a rep at some point following the transac-
tion based on aggregate sales volume or other contingencies. In other words, it is
a performance-based incentive related to selling a particular penny stock. Where
contingent compensation arrangements exist, written disclosure must describe
the basis upon which such compensation is determined.
Knopman Note: Prior to effecting any penny stock transactions for
customers, a broker-dealer must share 1) the penny stock risk disclosure
document, 2) the firm’s and the associated person’s compensation, and 3)
the inside quote. The number of market makers need not be disclosed.
7.7.2.4 Penny Stock Exemption
Broker-dealers are exempt from providing the penny stock disclosures if they
meet two criteria:
1.The broker-dealer earned 5% or less of its revenue in total compensation
from penny stocks over the last three months and for at least 11 of the
previous 12 months (the definition of total compensation includes
commissions, mark-ups, and mark-downs), and
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Regulations
257
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
258
2. The broker-dealer has not been a market maker in the penny stock that is
the subject of the transaction in the immediately preceding 12 months.
To qualify for the first part of the exemption, broker-dealers must keep detailed
records on compensation related to penny stocks over at least the past year. The
broker-dealer is allowed to exceed the 5% standard in just one month of the last
year, but that month cannot be in the most recent three. This test must be per-
formed every month. If the broker-dealer fails in one month, it can’t qualify for
the blanket exemption for the next two. If it fails in two consecutive months, it
can’t qualify for the next 11.
If a broker-dealer qualifies for the exemption, it is not subject to penny stock
disclosures on any transactions. If it does not qualify, the broker-dealer may still
avoid sending the risk document depending on the specific transaction. There
are four penny-stock-disclosure-exempt transactions:
1. Transactions with institutional investors
2. Private placement transactions under Regulation D
3. Transactions in which the customer is the issuer or a director, officer,
general partner, or 5% beneficial owner of the issuer’s equities
4. Unsolicited transactions
Knopman Note: Key exemptions from the suitability statement include:
1) unsolicited orders, 2) institutional accounts, and 3) firms who receive
less than 5% of their commission revenue from penny stock trades.
7.7.3 Penny Stock Suitability
In addition to the disclosure requirements, higher suitability standards apply to
recommendations or solicitations of penny stocks. A broker-dealer must reason-
ably determine that the transaction is suitable for the investor, given the inves-
tor’s financial situation and objectives.
To that end, the broker-dealer must give the customer a written statement
explaining the suitability determination. The customer must sign and date a
copy. Thereafter, the firm must obtain from the customer a written agreement
to go ahead with the transaction, identifying both the security and number of
shares involved.
There is an exception, however, that allows customers to trade solicited penny
stocks without returning a signed suitability statement. The exception is avail-
able for established customers, defined as:
◆◆Customers that effected a securities transaction, or made a deposit of
funds or securities, more than one year ago (e.g., customers that have
held an account for one year or longer), or
Customers who have made three purchases of three different penny
stocks on three separate days within the past year
7.7.4 Penny Stock Account Statements
All customers who own penny stock must receive monthly account statements
showing the number of shares and estimated market value of each penny stock
held in their account.
The estimated market value is calculated as the highest inside bid on the last
trading day to which the account statement relates, multiplied by the number
of shares held in the customer’s account.
Example
The account statement received by the customer in April covers the period of
March 1st through March 31st. If the highest inside bid for penny stock ABC
was $0.90 on March 31st and the customer owns 100 shares of ABC in their
account, then the estimated market value is $90 (calculated as 100 shares
multiplied by $0.90).
If there is no inside bid (since, for example, the stock is not currently being
quoted), then the broker-dealer should use the weighted average price per share
paid by the firm during the final five trading days of the period to which the state-
ment relates, multiplied by the number of shares held in the customer’s account.
To use this method, the firm must have affected at least ten purchases of that
penny stock during that five-day period.
If there is no inside bid and no weighted average price per share can be calculated,
then the message “no estimated market value” can be shown on the account
statement.
Knopman Note: Be sure to review the various ways to calculate the
estimated market value of a penny stock.
7.8 Books and Records
Broker-dealers are subject to books and records requirements under SEC Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4. In brief, these rules require:
◆ Retention of all order tickets along with the name of the representative
responsible for the account, the name of any other person who
entered the order for the customer, whether the order was placed with
discretionary authority, and the time the order was received
Knopman Note: Firms must maintain records of orders to buy or sell
securities that include:
1. The time the order was received, and
2. The time of entry (which is when the firm transmits the order for
execution)
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
259
Chapter 7
Equity Markets
Securities Regulations
◆◆◆◆Records of each registered representative’s employment and disciplinary
history with the firm, with identification of the specific offices where
each rep conducts business
Customer account records sufficient to allow regulators to check for
customer-specific suitability and know-your-customer require



Question and Answers
-----------------------

                                                                     Question ID: 2842
1) Broker-dealer Q is required to make certain information about
   National Market Systems publicly available. The information must be
   posted on a free public Web site. Also, customers must receive notice
   that a hard copy will be furnished on request. How often is such
   notice required?
    A) At least once every six months
    B) Only when there are material changes in the information
    C) Only at account opening
    D) At least annually
   Answer Explanation:
   Under Regulation NMS, make publicly available means information must
   be posted on a free public website. Customers are notified at least annually
   that a hard-copy is available on request.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                    Question ID: 15686
2) Nick, a registered rep, gave bad investment advice to his clients, the
   Howards. They responded by complaining directly to Nick verbally
   about it. Then, they called the compliance manager of his firm to
   make a verbal complaint. They followed with an email complaint and
   then a written letter of complaint to the firm. Which of these
   complaints must the firm retain in its books and records?
    A) the written complaint, but not the verbal or email complaints
    B) the email and written complaints
    C) all complaints
    D) the verbal and written complaints, but not the email complaint
   Answer Explanation:
   Firms must retain for books and records purposes any written customer
   complaints made against the firm or one of its reps, including complaints
   received by email. They also must retain records verifying that each
   customer has been provided notice of how and where to file complaints.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8
                                     34 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2410
3) How often must broker-dealers disclose to customers the venues to
   which their personal orders have been routed?
    A) For each trade
    B) Quarterly on the Rule 606 report
    C) On request
    D) With each statement
   Answer Explanation:
   Under Rule 606, the on customer request, broker-dealers must disclose
   where the customer's individual orders were routed (e.g. a customer may
   request of his broker-dealer, "where did you route my May 15 order to buy
   100 shares of IBM" or "where did you route each of my orders over the
   past six months"). The customer may request this information at any time.
   The disclosure must cover any directed or non-directed orders routed for
   the customer in the six months immediately prior to the request.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                      Question ID: 2139
4) Broker-dealer T is a Large Trader. It effects transactions for an
   intermediary whom it believes may exceed the identifying activity
   level in an omnibus account. T may disclose the intermediary to the
   SEC as
    A) A Conditional Large Trader
    B) An Identified Large Trader
    C) An Affiliate Trader
    D) An Unidentified Large Trader
   Answer Explanation:
   The Large Trader discloses the existence of an Unidentified Large Trader
   intermediary by assigning a four-digit suffix to its own LTID. This may be
   done even if the broker-dealer only suspects that the intermediary may be
   exceeding the identifying activity level.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.3
                                     35 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2388
5) Provisions of the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement
   Act include all of the following EXCEPT
    A) Supervisors can be held liable for negligence
    B) The maximum criminal penalty per offense is $20 million.
    C) Fines may be assessed of up to three times the profits made or
   losses avoided
    D) Both the tipper and tippee may be liable for insider trading violations
   Answer Explanation:
   The Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act establishes civil
   penalties and stiffens criminal penalties. Civil penalties may equal up to
   three times the profits made or losses avoided, but there is no maximum
   dollar amount of punishment. Criminal penalties are a maximum $5 million
   fine and 20 years imprisonment. Both tippers who share inside information,
   and tippees who may act on it, can be liable under the act. Supervisors of
   people involved in insider trading may also be held liable.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                                                     Question ID: 3148
6) If an associated person is paid cash to promote penny stocks by
   someone other than the broker-dealer, this must be disclosed as to
    A) there is no specific disclosure required
    B) both the source and the amount
    C) the amount
    D) the source
   Answer Explanation:
   Cash compensation paid to an associated person by a source other than
   the broker-dealer must be disclosed as to both source and amount.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                      36 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                           Question ID: 2441
7) Bill has an account with Broker-dealer P and often submits orders to
   his RR Paul. Some of these orders are sent to other venues for
   execution. If Bill wanted details on where his orders were sent
    A) He should check Broker-dealer P's website at the beginning of the
   next quarter to see these details
    B) He would need to make a written request to FINRA to obtain this
   information
    C) Broker-dealer P would be required to supply this information in a
   timely manner
    D) Broker-dealer P will tell Bill that this is strictly proprietary information
   and not accessible to the public
   Answer Explanation:
   In addition to routine quarterly reports that a broker-dealer must publish,
   each firm must provide specific order routing information to its customers
   upon request.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                           Question ID: 2194
8) A "penny stock" generally refers to an unlisted security that trades
    A) For $1 or less
    B) At less than $5 per share
    C) Less than 10 times per month
    D) For a few pennies
   Answer Explanation:
   A "penny stock" is a security typically issued by a very small company and
   trades for less than $5 per share
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7
                                                                           Question ID: 2769
9) At minimum, how many separate disclosures of the broker-dealer's
   compensation must be made in a penny stock transaction?
    A) One
    B) Two
    C) Three
    D) None
   Answer Explanation:
   One written disclosure, delivered prior to the transaction, satisfies the
   requirement. The broker-dealer must retain records to verify that the
   compensation disclosure is met.
   Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                       37 of 85
                                KnopmanMarks
                            http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                       Question ID: 37936
10) An institutional client has a credit limit of $10 million with ABC
    Brokerage. If the client wishes to enter a trade that exceeds this
    limit, what is the best course of action for the representative
    assigned to the account?
     A) Accept the trade provisionally
     B) Perform a credit analysis and increase the credit limit, if warranted
     C) Make a request to a supervisor to increase the credit limit
     D) Decline the trade
    Answer Explanation:
    If an institutional client suggests a trade that would take a client over the
    account’s credit limit, the representative should talk to a supervisor about
    increasing the limit. The representative usually does not have this
    authorization to raise it without supervisory approval. Note that this item is
    not specifically covered in the 2nd Edition Textbook, but as long as you
    review the question and corresponding explanation, you will be well
    prepared for this item on the exam.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                                                        Question ID: 2633
11) A broker-dealer earns more than 5% of total compensation from
    penny stocks in January and June of 2015. What is the soonest it
    can qualify for a blanket exemption from penny stock disclosures
    based on the period test?
     A) July of 2015
     B) June of 2016
     C) January of 2016
     D) December of 2015
    Answer Explanation:
    The broker-dealer is given one "free" month in every 12. It has not met the
    5% threshold in two months, so it must wait until the earliest of those
    months "rolls off" to re-qualify. That will be in January of 2016.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                        38 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                         Question ID: 2704
12) Someone holding material non-public information
     A) Should refrain from trading the security until the information
    becomes public knowledge
     B) May trade the stock as long as they don't tell others about their
    trading plans
     C) May discuss the information with friends, but only those who appear
    to be trustworthy
     D) May trade derivatives on the stock but not the stock itself
    Answer Explanation:
    Anyone holding material non-public information should not trade the stock
    or any derivatives on the stock. The information should not be shared with
    others if there is a possibility they will trade on the information.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.2
                                                                         Question ID: 3306
13) Trader D has discretionary authority over aggregate NMS
    transactions totaling: 2.5 million shares and $40 million during a
    calendar day; and 18 million shares totaling $180 million during a
    calendar month. Is D a Large Trader?
     A) Yes, because the daily threshold is exceeded
     B) Yes, because both thresholds are exceeded
     C) Yes, because the monthly threshold is exceeded
     D) No, because both thresholds are not exceeded
    Answer Explanation:
    There are two thresholds: 2 million shares or a fair market value of $20
    million for a calendar day; and 20 million shares or a fair market value of
    $200 million for a calendar month. If either threshold is equaled or
    exceeded, the Large Trader test is met.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                       39 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 3058
14) A broker dealer's restricted list, which is a list of securities that its
    employees cannot trade, will generally include all of the following
    EXCEPT
     A) An explanation of why the security was added to or deleted from the
    list
     B) The date and time the security was deleted from the list
     C) The name of a contact person who could answer questions about
    additions or deletions from the list
     D) The date and time the security was added to the list
    Answer Explanation:
    A broker-dealer's watch list and restricted list should each include:
    • the date and time the security was added to or deleted from the list;
    • the name of a contact person who could answer questions about the
    addition or deletion.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.4
                                                                      Question ID: 2559
15) The initial penny stock quote disclosure must be delivered to a
    customer
     A) in writing, at the time of the transaction.
     B) orally or in writing, before the transaction
     C) orally or in writing, at least two days before the transaction
     D) in writing, at least one day before the transaction
    Answer Explanation:
    The initial quote disclosure must be provided orally or in writing before the
    transaction (Rule 15g-3). A quote disclosure also must be provided in
    writing with the confirmation. The risk disclosure document must be
    delivered at least two business days before the transaction (Rule 15g-2).
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                      Question ID: 2802
16) Broker-dealers must make publicly available a report on its routing
    of non-directed orders in NMS securities
     A) Upon SEC request to facilitate an order flow investigation
     B) On a quarterly basis
     C) On a monthly basis
     D) Upon request of FINRA
    Answer Explanation:
    Broker-dealers must make publicly available for each calendar quarter a
    report on its routing of non-directed orders in NMS securities during that
    quarter.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                      40 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2440
17) To determine whether a recommended transaction is suitable for an
    institutional account, a broker-dealer's obligation does not include
     A) Receiving a negative consent letter from the institutional customer
     B) The customer affirmatively indicates that it is exercising
    independent judgement in evaluating the firms' recommendations
     C) Having a reasonable basis for believing that the customer is
    capable of evaluating general investment risk
     D) Being reasonably sure that the customer understands the specific
    nature of the risks inherent in executing transactions in particular
    securities
    Answer Explanation:
    A FINRA member may fulfill its customer-specific suitability obligation for
    an institutional account if the firm has a reasonable basis to believe that
    the client is capable of independently evaluating investment risks, and the
    customer affirmatively indicates that it is exercising independent judgment
    in evaluating the firm's recommendations.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.3
                                                                      Question ID: 3168
18) Penny stocks present added risk to customers because of
     A) their low potential for return.
     B) their potential for exposure to adverse tax consequences.
     C) their high surrender charges.
     D) their potential lack of liquidity.
    Answer Explanation:
    Penny stocks, or stocks priced below $5 per share that do not trade on an
    exchange, are frequently thinly traded, which means that there may be no
    market for the stock if customers want to liquidate their positions.
    Because of this market risk additional disclosure must be made to all
    buyers of penny stock.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.3
                                       41 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2065
19) For purposes of the requirement to provide statistical data on order
    execution quality, the definition of a covered order excludes any
    order for which the customer requests
     A) Special handling for execution
     B) An immediate- or-cancel (IOC) instruction
     C) A market order
     D) A limit price more than 1% from NBBO
    Answer Explanation:
    The definition of covered order includes market, limit and IOC orders, but
    not orders for which the customer requests special handling such as at
    the market open or close, with stop prices, AON or FOK.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                      Question ID: 3153
20) A copy machine technician has learned of a major product recall
    announcement that will have a significant impact on corporate
    profits while working at the site. He contacts several friends and
    tells them to dump their stock in this company. In this situation,
     A) The technician is an insider and has violated insider trading
    regulations
     B) Although the technician is not an insider, he has violated his
    fiduciary responsibility toward confidential information about this
    company, and is likely guilty of misappropriation of information
     C) The technician has not violated insider trading rules because he is
    not a corporate insider
     D) The technician has not violated insider trading rules because he did
    not make money on the transaction
    Answer Explanation:
    In this case, the technician has misappropriated information that was
    confidential. Although he did not profit on the transaction, he acted as a
    "tipper" to others who were able to avoid loss because of his tip and is
    guilty of misappropriation of information.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.1
                                      42 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2423
21) A market center must make monthly execution quality data available
    on an Internet site that is
     A) Free of charge and readily accessible to the public
     B) Accessible by authorized market participants only
     C) Not generally available to the public
     D) Password protected
    Answer Explanation:
    The purpose of the Rule 605 monthly execution quality data is to help the
    investing public make order routing decisions. The files must be readily
    accessible for downloading on the Internet, free of charge.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                     Question ID: 2924
22) At minimum, how often must a Large Trader make a disclosure filing
    with the SEC?
     A) Only if information has changed
     B) Annually
     C) Semi-annually
     D) Quarterly
    Answer Explanation:
    A 13H filing must be made via the EDGAR system at least annually within
    45 days after the end of each full calendar year. Amended filings are
    required for any quarter in which key information changes.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.3
                                                                     Question ID: 2881
23) Which aspects of a broker-dealer's relationship with its top order
    routing venues must be disclosed in the quarterly order routing
    report?
     A) Conflicts
     B) Joint customers
     C) Cross-ownership
     D) Payment for order flow
    Answer Explanation:
    The Rule 606 order routing report must discuss material aspects of a
    broker dealer's relationship with each venue identified, including any
    payment for order flow and any profit-sharing.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                      43 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                 Question ID: 2712
24) An investor receives a penny stock disclosure by mail at noon on
    Friday. What is the first day the transaction can occur in the next
    week?
     A) Friday
     B) Tuesday
     C) Wednesday
     D) Monday
    Answer Explanation:
    A penny stock transaction cannot be executed less than two business
    days after the disclosure document has been received by the customer.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                                                 Question ID: 3296
25) For purposes of penny stock compensation disclosure in a principal
    transaction, a market maker's prevailing price may be used,
    provided the market maker
     A) maintains substantial inventory.
     B) has at least three years of experience.
     C) works in an active and competitive market.
     D) is one of the two largest market makers in the stock.
    Answer Explanation:
    The compensation disclosed in a penny stock principal transaction is the
    difference between price charged the customer and the prevailing market
    priced charged by a market maker working in an active and competitive
    market.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                     44 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 36511
26) A customer holds 1,000 shares of a penny stock. The stock was
    purchased more than a year ago at $1.20 per share. It last traded at
    $.90 per share a week before the end of the month. On the last
    trading day of the month, it was quoted at .80 - 1.00. What estimated
    value should be shown on the monthly account statement for penny
    stock customers?
     A) $800
     B) $900
     C) $1,000
     D) $1,200
    Answer Explanation:
    The penny stock account statement must show, as the estimated value,
    the number of shares multiplied by the highest bid on the last day of the
    statement period. In this case, that is 100 shares X .80 = $800. This
    provides a conservative estimate of current value. Note that this concept
    is not explicitly covered in the 2nd Edition textbook, but ias long as you
    review the answer and explanation you will be prepared for this item for
    the exam.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7
                                                                       Question ID: 2081
27) Which one of the following types of orders is not considered a block
    for purposes of meeting the block positioner requirements?
     A) A single transaction
     B) Several transactions executed for a variety of reasons over several
    days
     C) Several transactions executed at about the same time
     D) Several transactions from a single source to facilitate a customer
    purchase or sale
    Answer Explanation:
    A "block" buy or sell is a single transaction or a series of transactions with
    a single purpose.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 1.2.1
                                       45 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                       Question ID: 2332
28) In an agency transaction for a penny stock, the amount of
    compensation disclosed is the
     A) difference between price charged and the average of two or more
    market maker's prices
     B) difference between price charged and prevailing market price
     C) commission received
     D) rebate paid by the issuer
    Answer Explanation:
    In an agency transaction, the commission paid by the customer to the
    broker-dealer must be disclosed. In a principal transaction, it is the
    difference between the price charged to the customer and the prevailing
    market price charged by a market maker who works in an active and
    competitive market
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                       Question ID: 2748
29) Which of the following cannot be or become a penny stock?
     A) Recent IPOs
     B) Shares that trade in high volume
     C) Shares with a relatively low price
     D) NMS-registered and listed shares
    Answer Explanation:
    The definition of what is not a penny stock includes National Market
    System (NMS) stocks registered and listed on a national securities
    exchange and meeting listing standards.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.3
                                                                      Question ID: 26138
30) At 9:23 a.m. one morning, a broker recommends a stock to a
    customer. The customer calls back at 9:29 a.m. and agrees to the
    trade. The broker's firm transmits the order for execution at 9:31
    a.m. and the trade takes place at 9:34 a.m. The time of entry on this
    trade is
     A) 9:23 a.m.
     B) 9:29 a.m.
     C) 9:31 a.m.
     D) 9:34 a.m.
    Answer Explanation:
    The time of entry is defined as the time when the firm transmits the order
    or instruction for execution.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8
                                      46 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 3147
31) Market maker V has learned of the impending resignation of the CEO
    of Issuer Z. This information has not been publicly announced.
    Which of the following activities may MM V continue to engage in at
    this point with respect to Issuer Z?
     A) The solicitation of institutional customer orders
     B) Hold discussions with members of the equity research team
     C) Increase its current holdings
     D) Execute unsolicited customer short sales
    Answer Explanation:
    With material non-public information in hand, a market maker may accept
    and execute unsolicited customer orders. The other activities would be
    deemed violative conduct by the market maker.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.2
                                                                     Question ID: 2338
32) Broker-dealers and associated persons may not compensate
    publications or members of the media for the purpose of
     A) influencing or rewarding their actions.
     B) distributing research reports.
     C) providing personal referrals.
     D) publishing advertising.
    Answer Explanation:
    FINRA restricts ways in which broker-dealers and associated personal
    may compensate publications and member of the media. Compensation
    may not be given directly or indirectly to influence or reward actions that
    have an effect on securities prices.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                                                     Question ID: 2686
33) A broker-dealer can qualify for an exemption from penny stock
    disclosures by qualifying in through two tests, these are:
     A) market maker and revenue.
     B) market making and share volume.
     C) trading activity and revenue.
     D) size and longevity.
    Answer Explanation:
    A disclosure exemption is available for firms that meet two tests: those
    that are not market makers and that have minimal revenue (<5%) derived
    from penny stock transaction. If the broker-dealer qualifies because it is 1)
    not a market maker, and 2) 5% or less of its securities transaction
    revenues are derived from penny stocks than it is exempt from making
    the penny stock disclosures.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                      47 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 2012
34) A broker-dealer that is not a market maker can qualify for an
    exemption from penny stock disclosures if it can show that it has
    not earned more than
     A) 5% of total compensation from penny stocks.
     B) 10% of total compensation from penny stocks.
     C) 25% of total compensation from penny stocks.
     D) 50% of total compensation from penny stocks.
    Answer Explanation:
    Provided that a firm has not earned more than 5% of its commission
    revenue from penny stock transactions it is exempt from the disclosure
    requirements. There are two measurement periods: the immediately
    preceding three months and during 11 or more of the preceding 12
    months. Both period-related tests must be met. In addition, the firm must
    not been a market maker in the penny stock that is the subject of the
    transaction in the immediately preceding twelve months.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                    Question ID: 2709
35) An employee of a public accounting firm learns of significant
    information about another company through his employment. The
    employee makes a trade for his personal investment account based
    on this information. This is an example of
     A) trading along
     B) misrepresentation
     C) misappropriation
     D) front running
    Answer Explanation:
    Misappropriation occurs when persons steal information from their
    employer and trades on that information in any stock, not just their
    employer's stock. The misappropriation theory broadens the liability for
    misuse of inside information and is illegal.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.1
                                      48 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                         Question ID: 2192
36) For how long must broker-dealers retain a customer's
    acknowledgement of a penny stock disclosure?
     A) At least six years
     B) At least two years
     C) At least one year
     D) At least three years
    Answer Explanation:
    A copy of the customer's signed and dated acknowledgement must be
    retained by the broker-dealer for at least three years, including the first
    two years in an accessible place.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                                                         Question ID: 3036
37) A broker-dealer buys from a customer a penny stock on a principal
    basis. It has not made interdealer purchases or sales of the same
    stock consistently. What must be disclosed?
     A) The theoretical price of the security, based on SEC guidelines
     B) The best bid and offer from two other dealers
     C) The price at which it last purchased the stock from another dealer in
    a bona fide transaction
     D) The average price of the last five sales of the same stock
    Answer Explanation:
    If the dealer has not consistently made interdealer sales in the same
    stock, it must disclose this fact, along with the price of its last purchase
    from another dealer in a bona fide transaction.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                         Question ID: 2190
38) A block size order under Regulation NMS for order protection
    purposes is an order for
     A) At least 10,000 shares or a market value of at least $200,000
     B) No more than 10,000 shares having a market value of up to
    $200,000
     C) Any number of shares having a market value of at least $500,000
     D) At least 20,000 shares having a market value of at least $100,000
    Answer Explanation:
    According to Regulation NMS, a block size order means an order for at
    least 10,000 shares or a market value of at least $200,000.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.5
                                      49 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 26137
39) A trader receives an order from a customer to buy 3,000 shares. The
    trader then splits the order into three smaller orders, each for 1,000
    shares. This is a shredding violation if the orders are
     A) split without the customer's explicit permission.
     B) routed to different exchanges.
     C) split to generate additional commissions.
     D) split to achieve faster trade execution.
    Answer Explanation:
    A trader is allowed to split an order for a valid reason, such as faster
    execution. Shredding occurs when orders are split to generate additional
    commissions.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6.4
                                                                       Question ID: 3171
40) How may an investor acknowledge receiving a penny stock
    disclosure?
     A) There is no specific requirement
     B) By signing to acknowledge receipt of the information
     C) Verbally or in writing
     D) By manually signing and dating the document
    Answer Explanation:
    To confirm receipt of the penny stock disclosure document, the customer
    must manually sign and date the document itself - not a receipt for a
    package containing the document.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                                                       Question ID: 2270
41) How may a penny stock disclosure be sent to a customer?
     A) It must be delivered in-person by the broker
     B) By either postal mail or email
     C) By email only
     D) By postal mail only
    Answer Explanation:
    The penny stock risk disclosure may be sent by either postal mail or email
    at least two full business days before the transaction.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                       50 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2864
42) Order-splitting is prohibited if the primary purpose is to increase
     A) order flow.
     B) transaction volume.
     C) monetary or in-kind payments.
     D) trades reported.
    Answer Explanation:
    FINRA prohibits order-splitting for the primary purpose of increasing
    monetary or in-kind payments, including credits, commissions, gratuities,
    rebates and fees.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                                                      Question ID: 2776
43) When a penny stock disclosure is required, it must be delivered to
    the client
     A) not later than the day of the transaction.
     B) at least one business day before the transaction.
     C) at least two business days before the transaction.
     D) at least five business days before the transaction.
    Answer Explanation:
    The two-day prior delivery requirement creates a kind of "cooling off"
    period, during which the client can consider whether the transaction
    makes sense.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                                                      Question ID: 2121
44) Which broker-dealer relationships must a Large Trader disclose to
    the SEC?
     A) All in which discretionary trading has exceeded thresholds
     B) All at which an account is held
     C) All in which any trading has occurred
     D) All in which discretionary trading has occurred
    Answer Explanation:
    The Large Trader must disclose on Form 13H all broker-dealers at which
    either the firm or its Securities Affiliates has an account, whether or not
    there has been active trading in the account.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.3
                                       51 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2046
45) Which of the following is the best example of misappropriation of
    inside information?
     A) A corporate treasurer tells his neighbor of a large upcoming product
    recall his company will announce; after which the neighbor sells his stock
    in that company.
     B) A self-employed tax preparer for a small OTCBB company intended
    to sell his holdings. However, after learning the company has developed
    an innovative new technology device while meeting with the CFO, he
    decides to hold the shares and does not sell.
     C) A president of a company knows her company had a very good
    quarter. Prior to that being announced she buys shares of a competitor
    that operates in the same market.
     D) An administrative assistant at a large law firm learns of a large
    lawsuit to be filed against a major pharmaceutical company and
    immediately sells her stock in that company.
    Answer Explanation:
    Misappropriation occurs when persons steal information from their
    employer and trade on that information in any stock, not just their
    employer's stock. The misappropriation theory broadens the liability for
    misuse of inside information and is illegal.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.1
                                                                     Question ID: 2639
46) In addition to meeting regular broker-dealer recordkeeping
    requirements, Large Traders are responsible for maintaining trade
    records of trades matched to
     A) Large Trader IDs
     B) Trading authorities
     C) OATS reports
     D) Client names
    Answer Explanation:
    To create an audit trail, each trade (by transaction time) must be matched
    to the Large Trader ID.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                      52 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 3131
47) Regulation NMS Rule 605 is concerned with
     A) Statistical information of market centers concerning their order
    executions.
     B) Quotation data published by market makers and reported to
    NASDAQ.
     C) The reconciliation of short sale data through clearing corporations.
     D) Order routing information provided by market makers.
    Answer Explanation:
    Rule 605 of Regulation NMS is concerned with the collection and
    publication of monthly statistical information by market centers that is
    used to understand order execution behavior.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                     Question ID: 36512
48) Years ago, a customer bought 2,000 shares of a penny stock at a
    price of $2.00 per share. Several months ago, the customer received
    a penny stock monthly account statement showing the current
    estimated value of this stock at $1,750. Now, the customer has
    received a similar statement that indicates "no estimated market
    value." This statement indicates that
     A) there are no recent bids for the stock.
     B) there are no market-makers for the stock.
     C) the stock has become worthless.
     D) trading in the stock has been suspended.
    Answer Explanation:
    The penny stock account statement requires an estimated value to be
    shown. Normally, the value is based on the highest inside bid quoted on
    the last trading day of the statement period. If there is no quote on that
    day, and the broker-dealer has not actively traded the stock within the
    past week, the message "no estimated market value" is shown on the
    account statement. Note that this concept is not explicitly covered in the
    2nd Edition textbook, but ias long as you review the answer and
    explanation you will be prepared for this item for the exam.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7
                                      53 of 85
                                KnopmanMarks
                            http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                        Question ID: 2777
49) In connection with the solicitation of securities, the anti-fraud rule of
    U.S. securities law makes it unlawful to omit a material fact
    necessary to make the statements made
     A) deceptive
     B) not misleading
     C) understandable
     D) confusing
    Answer Explanation:
    It can be securities fraud to omit to state a material fact that is necessary
    to make the statements made not misleading in light of the circumstances
    under which they were made.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                                                        Question ID: 2322
50) A Large Trader has discretionary authority over aggregate
    transactions in NMS securities exceeding the share volume and fair
    market value thresholds. The thresholds are based on trading over
    which period?
     A) Either daily or monthly
     B) Weekly
     C) Daily
     D) Monthly
    Answer Explanation:
    The test for a Large Trader is based on aggregate NMS transactions
    calculated by a daily test (2 million shares or a fair market value of $20
    million) or a monthly test (20 million shares or a fair market value of $200
    million). Either test may be met. These are called identifying activity levels
    - i.e., they identify Large Traders who must self-report to the SEC.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                                                        Question ID: 2422
51) Another name for order-splitting is
     A) fragmenting
     B) smashing
     C) shredding
     D) dicing
    Answer Explanation:
    Shredding an order means chopping it into multiple smaller orders for
    execution or trade reporting.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                        54 of 85
                                KnopmanMarks
                            http://testprep.knopman.com
                       Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                        Question ID: 2784
52) Market maker Q has just learned of a potential restructuring of
    Issuer U, a stock that Q makes a market in. This information has not
    been publicly announced or confirmed. The most prudent course of
    action for MM Q at this point is to
     A) Discuss this matter with their investment banking division
     B) Notify the SEC that this rumor exists
     C) Adjust their inventory position in Issuer U.
     D) Request excused withdrawal status from FINRA
    Answer Explanation:
    In this instance, the best thing for Market Maker Q to do is to seek an
    excused withdrawal in this stock, to avoid trading on the basis of inside
    information.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9
                                                                        Question ID: 2566
53) Market centers reports required by Regulation NMS are not
    categorized by
     A) Order modifier
     B) Order type
     C) Order size
     D) Individual security
    Answer Explanation:
    Market center reports required by Regulation NMS must be categorized
    by security, order type, and order size. The modifier is not relevant.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                        Question ID: 3301
54) Trader X engages in a riskless principal transaction to offset a sale
    of 10,000 shares to a customer. Is the principal transaction included
    in the calculation of the Large Trader thresholds?
     A) Yes, because it is specifically designated by rule
     B) No, because it does not involve discretion
     C) No, because it does not impact a customer directly
     D) Yes, because it involves discretion
    Answer Explanation:
    The SEC says that a riskless principal transaction "lacks the requisite
    degree of investment discretion to characterize it as a Large Trader
    activity." It's important to note, however, that other principal trades may be
    discretionary and count towards the trader's threshold.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                        55 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 2188
55) For purposes of NMS stocks, the dollar size threshold that defines a
    block size trade is
     A) At least $1 million
     B) At least $200,000
     C) At least $100,000
     D) At least $500,000
    Answer Explanation:
    Block size with respect to an order in NMS securities means at least
    10,000 shares or a quantity of stock having a market value of at least
    $200,000. Note for OTC securities a block is 10,000 shares and
    $100,000.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.5
                                                                    Question ID: 2191
56) If a broker-dealer sells a penny stock on an agency basis, it must
    disclose the best bid/offer price obtained through reasonable due
    diligence. This can be demonstrated by obtaining quotes from
     A) at least other three market makers.
     B) at least one other market maker.
     C) FINRA.
     D) the consolidated tape.
    Answer Explanation:
    Due diligence, for this purpose, means obtaining independent interdealer
    quotes from at least three market makers.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                    Question ID: 3165
57) To whom must the quarterly report on order routing be
    disseminated?
     A) The public
     B) Regulators
     C) The venues identified
     D) FINRA's membership
    Answer Explanation:
    The Rule 606 report is designed for public consumption, to help investors
    choose broker-dealers who will rout orders efficiently. The reports must
    be posted on a free Internet website (usually the company's own website)
    with written copies available upon request.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                      56 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                 Question ID: 3053
58) In addition to the bid/ask quote, the penny stock quote disclosure
    must show
     A) the number of shares to which the quote applies.
     B) the number of bona fide market makers.
     C) the average daily trading volume (ADTV).
     D) the counterparty broker.
    Answer Explanation:
    The broker-dealer must disclose the number of shares represented by the
    bid/offer quote.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                 Question ID: 2285
59) In the compensation disclosure for the sale of penny stocks, what
    must be disclosed when a contingent compensation arrangement
    exists to reward an associated person?
     A) Non-cash compensation only
     B) Cash only
     C) The specific relationship between the associated person and the
    penny stock promoter.
     D) Both cash and other compensation
    Answer Explanation:
    In contingent compensation arrangements, both cash and other
    compensation paid to associated persons for penny stock transactions
    must be disclosed.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                 Question ID: 3211
60) Regulations prohibit any attempt to coordinate prices, quotes or
    trade reports between
     A) any two or more entities.
     B) member firms.
     C) market makers.
     D) traders and brokers.
    Answer Explanation:
    FINRA prohibits attempts at coordination between any two or more
    entities, which may be members, associated persons, investors, or
    anyone else.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                      57 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                       Question ID: 2203
61) Market centers are required to report monthly all of the following
    metrics of order execution quality, except
     A) Average effective spread
     B) After-market liquidity
     C) Rate of price improvement
     D) Fill rate
    Answer Explanation:
    The Rule 605 report filed by market centers must include the following
    metrics: average effective spread, rate of price improvement, fill rates,
    and speed of execution. All of these are reported for trades during regular
    market hours - not extended hours.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                       Question ID: 2152
62) Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 all of the following
    persons are defined as insiders EXCEPT
     A) An owner of more than 10% of the outstanding stock of a
    corporation
     B) A staff accountant who has worked for the company for more than
    10 years.
     C) A non-affiliated director of the firm
     D) An officer of the firm that does not own stock in the company
    Answer Explanation:
    The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 defines insiders as officers,
    directors and owners of more than 10% of the outstanding stock of a
    corporation
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9
                                                                       Question ID: 3090
63) Who has the responsibility for determining when a penny stock
    disclosure must be given to a customer?
     A) The broker-dealer
     B) The SEC
     C) The issuer
     D) FINRA
    Answer Explanation:
    It is each broker-dealer's responsibility to determine if a stock is a penny
    stock and deliver any and all required disclosures.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                     58 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 1981
64) During one month, Broker-Dealer X routes non-directed orders to 12
    venues. Of these, three exceed 10% of total non-directed orders
    routed and another four exceed 5% of total non-directed orders
    routed. How many venues, at minimum, must be identified in the
    order routing report?
     A) 3
     B) 7
     C) 10
     D) 12
    Answer Explanation:
    A broker dealer's Rule 606 report must identify the 10 largest venues for
    non-directed order routing. It also must identify any venue to which 5% or
    more of total non-directed orders were routed even if that requires it to
    report on more than 10 venues.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                    Question ID: 2575
65) A broker-dealer sells a penny stock to a customer in a principal
    transaction. The price paid by the customer is $2.75 per share. What
    must be known to disclose compensation?
     A) Interdealer mark-up
     B) Prevailing market price charged by a market maker
     C) The commission
     D) Relative value
    Answer Explanation:
    The compensation disclosure in a principal transaction shows the
    difference between the price charged and the prevailing market price
    charged by a market maker in an active and competitive market.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                    Question ID: 1975
66) Based on Average Daily Trading Volume (ADTV) in an NMS stock,
    what threshold must an Alternative Trading System (ATS) exceed to
    be subject to heightened reporting and record keeping
    requirements?
     A) 2.5% of ADTV
     B) 5% of ADTV
     C) 7.5% of ADTV
     D) 10% of ADTV
    Answer Explanation:
    The heightened reporting and recordkeeping requirements of Reg ATS
    Rule 301 are triggered if trading volume threshold is exceeded in any 4 of
    the last 6 months. For NMS stocks, the threshold is 5% or more of ADTV.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.1.2
                                     59 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2383
67) Broker Z has filed disclosure information as a Large Trader in the
    past. However, it no longer exceeds the thresholds for aggregate
    discretionary trading. What should it do to avoid having to file in the
    future?
     A) Cease making 13H filings
     B) File a Termination Request
     C) Make an amended filing, indicating Inactive Status
     D) Make an amended filing, indicating Terminated Filing
    Answer Explanation:
    A large trader becomes inactive and exempt from further filing and self-
    identification requirements upon making an amended 13H filing, indicating
    Inactive Status. A Terminating Filing is used by firms going out of
    business.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.3
                                                                     Question ID: 2825
68) For disclosing a penny stock quote, the inside bid/ask quote is
    defined as the best bid/ask at any time in which how many market
    makers are displaying quotes?
     A) One
     B) Three
     C) Four
     D) Two
    Answer Explanation:
    The inside quote is defined as the best bid/ask at any time in which at
    least two market makers are contemporaneously displaying quotes.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                     Question ID: 2551
69) By rule, members are required to report to FINRA any transaction in
    NMS stocks effected
     A) Otherwise than on an exchange
     B) On multiple exchanges
     C) Directly between institutions
     D) In a dark pool
    Answer Explanation:
    For this purpose, otherwise than on an exchange means a trade effected
    by a FINRA member other than on or through a national securities
    exchange, for example a transaction executed over the telephone.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                      60 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                       Question ID: 2323
70) A public company gives information about its earnings per share to
    a market maker, without making the same information available to
    the public. This is considered a
     A) sensitive leak.
     B) selective disclosure.
     C) unwarranted communication.
     D) data breach.
    Answer Explanation:
    If material information is only released to a select few people, it is a
    selective disclosure. Regulation FD would subsequently require
    disclosure of this information to the public by the later of 24 hours or the
    open of trading on the next business day.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.10
                                                                       Question ID: 3231
71) A broker-dealer sells a customer a penny stock on a principal basis.
    It must disclose its current offer or bid price if it has had how many
    bona fide sale or purchase transactions with other dealers,
    consistently at the same price.
     A) five
     B) two
     C) three
     D) ten
    Answer Explanation:
    The dealer must disclose its current offer or bid price if it has had three
    bona fide sales or purchase to other dealers consistently at the same
    price.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                                                       Question ID: 2806
72) For purposes of the Large Trader rule the identifying activity level is
    based on aggregate transactions
     A) In non-listed securities
     B) On national exchanges
     C) On domestic and foreign exchanges
     D) In NMS securities
    Answer Explanation:
    The Large Trader identifying activity level is based on aggregate
    transactions in NMS securities. A large trader is any person whose
    transactions in NMS securities equal or exceed 2 million shares or $20
    million during any calendar day or 20 million shares or $200 million during
    any calendar month.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                       61 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 2149
73) For purposes of the requirement to make monthly reports on
    execution quality, all of the following are considered market centers
    except
     A) A national securities exchange
     B) An alternative trading system
     C) An OTC market maker
     D) A clearing house
    Answer Explanation:
    The term market center is defined as any exchange market maker, OTC
    market maker, alternative trading system, national securities exchange or
    national securities association.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                   Question ID: 34930
74) To qualify as a block positioner, a firm must maintain a minimum net
    capital of
     A) $100,000
     B) $1 million
     C) $5 million
     D) $10 million
    Answer Explanation:
    Block positioners must maintain minimum net capital of $1,000,000.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.5
                                                                    Question ID: 3221
75) Average effective spread is a metric that is used to measure
     A) Trading volume
     B) Dealer activity
     C) Trading liquidity and efficiency
     D) Commissions and fees charged to investors
    Answer Explanation:
    The effective spread measures the share-weighted average of effective
    spreads for order executions, calculated as double the distance between
    the mid-point of NBBO and the transaction price. The lower it is, the more
    liquid and efficient trading is for investors.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                       62 of 85
                                KnopmanMarks
                            http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 1873
76) To exceed the Large Trader threshold for a calendar day, a trader
    must have discretionary authority over aggregate transactions that
    are equal to or greater than two million shares with a fair market
    value of
     A) $15 million
     B) $20 million
     C) $25 million
     D) $30 million
    Answer Explanation:
    The calendar day threshold is two million shares or shares with a fair
    market value of $20 million.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.1
                                                                      Question ID: 2760
77) A broker-dealer's quarterly report on order routing must identify to
    the public its largest venues for
     A) Directed orders only
     B) Discretionary orders executed on behalf of customers
     C) Non-directed orders only
     D) Both non-directed and directed orders
    Answer Explanation:
    A firm's public Rule 606 quarterly report identifies the 10 largest venues
    for non-directed orders.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                      Question ID: 2411
78) Which of the following types of payments may not be made to a
    member of the media?
     A) For paid advertising
     B) Clearly disclosed in a specific amount
     C) For influencing opinions about stocks
     D) For distribution of a research report
    Answer Explanation:
    There are three exceptions to the restriction on compensating members
    of the media: paid advertising, compensation clearly disclosed as to
    specific amount, and for research reports. Compensation that seeks to
    directly or indirectly influence media opinions about stocks is not allowed.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                        63 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2946
79) Under Reg NMS Rule 605, for purposes of the requirement to provide
    statistical data on order execution quality covered orders are
    defined as orders received and executed during
     A) Regular and pre-market hours
     B) Regular trading hours
     C) Any trading hours the member firm accepts and executes customer
    orders
     D) Regular and after-market hours
    Answer Explanation:
    The goal is to measure order execution during regular trading hours,
    when trading is most liquid. A covered order is any market or limit order
    received during regular trading hours, at a time when a consolidated best
    bid and offer is being disseminated.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                     Question ID: 2239
80) An alternative trading system (ATS) does not
     A) Provide for disciplinary measures to be taken against its subscribers
     B) Provide non-discretionary methods under which orders to buy and
    sell securities interact with each other
     C) Enable trading participants to negotiate prices for their orders
     D) Bring together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and
    sellers
    Answer Explanation:
    An alternative trading system (ATS) does not discipline its subscribers
    other than by disallowing trading privileges
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.1.1
                                       64 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 15684
81) Leonard, a registered rep, is trying to help a client sell a block of
    stock. At 2:12 pm, the client instructs Leonard to use his best
    judgment and sell 1,200 shares today at the best price available.
    After consulting with his trading desk, Leonard writes a limit order
    ticket at 2:45. Before he can submit the ticket, the stock price rises,
    so he adjusts the limit price at 2:47. He transmits the order at 2:49
    and it is executed at the limit price at 3:08. What should he list as the
    time of order entry on the order ticket, for books and records
    compliance?
     A) 2:12 PM
     B) 3:08 PM
     C) 2:45 PM
     D) 2:49 PM
    Answer Explanation:
    For books and records compliance, firms must maintain records of orders
    to buy or sell securities including the time the order was received (2:12 in
    this case) and the time of order entry (2:49). The time of order entry is
    when the firm transmits the order for execution.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8
                                                                      Question ID: 2758
82) A disreputable penny stock promoter, who has done prison time,
    slips several hundred dollar bills to a trader to pump a penny stock.
    Must the promoter's identity be disclosed to the firm's customers?
     A) No, only the amount of compensation must be disclosed
     B) Yes, if customers buy or sell shares of the stock
     C) Yes, if customers request to know the source of this compensation
     D) No, because this is not official compensation
    Answer Explanation:
    Both the source and amount of cash compensation paid to associated
    persons must be disclosed. Penny stock compensation disclosures are
    mandatory and provided in all transactions, not just at the customer's
    request.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                       65 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                         Question ID: 2130
83) What term defines a venue that matches buyers and sellers for
    securities transactions and is not an exchange or self-regulatory
    organization?
     A) Securities market alliance (SMA)
     B) Alternative trading system (ATS)
     C) Affiliated trading exchange (ATE)
     D) Non-exchange entity (NEE)
    Answer Explanation:
    An ATS is not an exchange and is regulated as a broker-dealer. It
    performs tasks similar to exchanges in bringing together buyers and
    sellers of securities.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.1.1
                                                                         Question ID: 2866
84) Market centers must report on a monthly basis their order execution
    quality, categorized by individual security, order size and
     A) Order type
     B) Order speed
     C) Order receipt time
     D) Customer type
    Answer Explanation:
    For purposes of Market Center Rule 605 reports, disclosure is required
    regarding order execution quality, categorized by individual security, order
    size and order type. There are five order types: 1) market, 2) marketable
    limit, 3) inside-the-quote limit, 4) at-the-quote limit and 5) near-the-quote
    limit. Order execution reports must be made for all five types.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                         Question ID: 2804
85) If a firm is in receipt of nonpublic advance information from a
    research report it must place any customer orders
     A) on a fully discretionary basis.
     B) on a non-discretionary basis.
     C) on an agency basis.
     D) on a principal basis.
    Answer Explanation:
    The rule against altering inventory means the firm cannot trade for or from
    its own inventory - on a principal basis. It must accept customer orders on
    an agency basis only.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                       66 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 26136
86) A trader accidentally gets a sneak-peak at an upcoming research
    report that her firm has prepared. A trading ahead violation will
    occur if the trader
     A) shares this information with a non-insider.
     B) a trading ahead violation cannot occur when information is obtained
    accidentally.
     C) trades on this information at any time.
     D) trades on this information before the information is made public.
    Answer Explanation:
    Trading ahead is the prohibited practice of trading securities based on
    non-public advance knowledge of the content of a research report. It does
    not matter how the information is obtained.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6.2
                                                                      Question ID: 3126
87) An exchange must deny membership to any person associated with
    a broker-dealer who has received a statutory disqualification that
    would prevent that person from associating with
     A) Public securities issuers
     B) A self-regulatory organization
     C) The public
     D) Registered professionals
    Answer Explanation:
    If an associated person (e.g., registered representative) is disqualified
    from being registered from an SRO, such as FINRA, then an exchange
    must deny that person membership.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                     67 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 25663
88) Regulation Best Interest (BI) provides that a customer relationship
    summary (Form CRS) be provided to prospective and existing retail
    clients
     A) within 24 hours of the delivery of a recommendation but prior to the
    execution of a recommended transaction.
     B) prior to the execution of a recommended transaction.
     C) prior to the delivery of a prospectus for a recommended mutual fund
    transaction.
     D) prior to a recommendation for a particular investment product or
    strategy.
    Answer Explanation:
    Regulation BI requires that a customer relationship summary (Form CRS)
    be provided to a prospective and existing retail customer prior to any
    recommendations being made. The purpose of this summary is to give
    clients the opportunity to compare products and services across multiple
    service providers. To that end, this summary must comply with various
    requirements as proscribed by SEC rules, to promote ease of comparison
    of products and services.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.3.4
                                                                     Question ID: 3317
89) Will a falling share price cause a company's shares to become a
    "penny stock" for disclosure purposes?
     A) Not if the issuer applies for an SEC exemption
     B) Yes, whenever the share price drops below $5
     C) Not if the stock is NMS-registered and listed on a national exchange
     D) Yes, whenever the share price drops below $1
    Answer Explanation:
    A falling stock price does not automatically mean a stock will be subject to
    penny stock disclosures. There are two requirements for a stock to be
    deemed a penny stock, 1) a price less than $5, AND 2) an unlisted stock.
    Therefore, an NMS stocks registered and listed on a national exchange
    and stocks of large issuers are not considered penny stocks, regardless
    of share price.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7
                                      68 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                   Question ID: 2768
90) What disclosure is required to be given to customers in regard to a
    penny stock quote?
     A) Most recent bid/ask
     B) Bid only for a sell; ask only for a buy
     C) None
     D) Inside bid/ask
    Answer Explanation:
    Broker-dealers are required to disclose to customers the inside bid/ask
    quote for a penny stock, when one exists.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                  Question ID: 34929
91) To facilitate a trade for a customer, a broker-dealer places four buy
    orders of the same NMS stock within a few minutes. The total value
    of the trades is $450,000. Is this considered a block trade under the
    1934 Act?
     A) It depends on the number of shares that were purchased.
     B) No, because a block trade must be a single trade.
     C) Yes, because the value exceeds $200,000.
     D) No, because the value does not exceed $500,000.
    Answer Explanation:
    For NMS stocks under the 1934 Act, a Qualified Block positioner trades
    blocks with a market value of $200,000 or more in one trade or a series of
    trades at approximately the same time. For OTC stocks, a block is
    defined as 10,000 shares or $100,000 in value.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.5
                                     69 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 25661
92) Following an analysis of a retail client’s investments and objectives,
    a registered representative is preparing a few action items for the
    client to consider implementing in the next few months, in the
    interest of long-term planning goals articulated by the client. A
    couple of these potential investments would result in higher
    commission costs to the client, although other suitable, lower cost
    options may exist. According to Regulation Best Interest (BI),
     A) a customer relationship summary (Form CRS) must be furnished to
    the customer providing full details of the nature of any investment
    products that will be recommended to the customer.
     B) the registered representative would need to demonstrate a
    minimum 3-year track record for the investment so as to justify why it is a
    better alternative than other lower cost options.
     C) the practice of recommending products that carry higher
    commissions than other suitable alternatives is not in the customer’s best
    interest.
     D) the registered representative is free to suggest any particular
    investment strategies that are deemed appropriate for the client,
    irrespective of commission costs.
    Answer Explanation:
    According to Regulation Best Interest (BI), it is not acceptable to
    recommend a security or transaction that, although potentially suitable,
    entails higher commission costs to the client than other similarly
    appropriate investment alternatives. This practice was previously
    acceptable under the suitability rule, but not according to the heightened
    standards of Regulation BI.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.3.4
                                                                      Question ID: 2010
93) Broker-dealers must report on a quarterly basis the identities of
    venues to which non-directed orders were routed, if they equal or
    exceed what percent of total non-directed orders routed?
     A) 5%
     B) 10%
     C) 15%
     D) 25%
    Answer Explanation:
    The Rule 606 broker dealer quarterly routing report must identity the 10
    venues with the largest number of total non-directed orders routed. In all
    cases, however, any venue to which 5% or more of total non-directed
    orders were routed must be identified.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                      70 of 85
                                 KnopmanMarks
                             http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                        Question ID: 2790
94) What must a qualified block positioner do, to determine that a block
    can't be bought or sold from others on equivalent or better terms?
     A) Obtain at least three competitive quotes
     B) Exercise reasonable due diligence
     C) Send the order to the floor of the NYSE to check the quote of the
    designated market maker.
     D) Document the last hour's worth of quotes
    Answer Explanation:
    A block positioner must exercise reasonable due diligence in trading
    blocks at a competitive price.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.5
                                                                        Question ID: 2537
95) If a broker-dealer sells an OTC penny stock to a retail client, in which
    case might this trade qualify for a specific-transaction exemption for
    disclosure purposes?
     A) If the client is sophisticated
     B) If the client has previously purchased the same stock
     C) If it is client-initiated
     D) If it is for 1,000 shares or more
    Answer Explanation:
    For most OTC penny stocks, the only transaction-specific exemption
    occurs when the trade is client-initiated (i.e. unsolicited). In such case the
    broker need not make all the required disclosures in Rule 15g-3 such as
    the current quote and compensation to the rep and the firm.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                        Question ID: 3009
96) In a private right of action, which of the following facts must the
    plaintiff be prepared to present and prove, if he/she is to prevail?
     A) Identities of any parties who aided or abetted the fraud
     B) Specific statements alleged to have been fraudulent
     C) Specific transactions impacted by the fraud
     D) Testimony from eyewitnesses
    Answer Explanation:
    A fraud is perpetrated through communication of specific words or
    statements - orally or in writing. The plaintiff must show where and how
    statements were made and why they were fraudulent or deceitful.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.4
                                         71 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 2414
97) On September 15, a customer requests from her broker-dealer a list
    of all of her orders that have been routed, identified by venue and
    transaction times. The broker dealer must respond by providing a
    list of these orders from which dates?
     A) For the past month
     B) For the past quarter
     C) For the past year
     D) For the past six months
    Answer Explanation:
    Under Rule 606, a firm must identify the venues to which orders have
    been routed during the six-month period prior to the request.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                    Question ID: 3193
98) Under Regulation NMS Rule 606, upon a customer's request, a firm
    must provide order routing information from the previous
     A) three months.
     B) 12 months
     C) six months.
     D) nine months.
    Answer Explanation:
    Rule 606 requires broker dealers to disclose to clients where they have
    routed their orders during the previous six months.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                    Question ID: 3127
99) To whom must market centers' monthly electronic reports on
    execution quality be made available?
     A) The public
     B) FINRA compliance staff
     C) The SEC
     D) FINRA members
    Answer Explanation:
    Monthly execution quality reports (Rule 605 reports) are designed to keep
    the investing public informed regarding execution quality. They must be
    broadly available through an Internet site.
    Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                      72 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2089
100) A journalist who worked for a business magazine learns about the
     confidential takeover of a company he is writing about while
     performing his work duties. As a result, he buys a large amount of
     stock in the company, but then learns that the takeover will not take
     place and subsequently sells the stock position and ultimately
     breaks even on the transactions. In this situation
      A) the journalist may have committed an insider trading violation
     under the misappropriation theory
      B) a violation of insider trading rules did not occur because the
     journalist is not considered an insider of the target company
      C) a violation of insider trading rules may have occurred because the
     journalist is considered an insider of the company due to his access to
     company confidential information
      D) a violation of insider trading did not occur because the journalist
     did not profit on the transaction
     Answer Explanation:
     In this case the journalist is not an insider of the company targeted for
     takeover. However, under the misappropriation theory, employees have
     fiduciary responsibility toward, and cannot misuse, confidential
     information about other companies entrusted to them by their employer.
     In this case the journalist most likely violated the misappropriation
     theory.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.1
                                                                      Question ID: 2205
101) For purposes of evaluating order execution quality, the most useful
     metric for summarizing the overall liquidity premium paid by
     investors submitting market and marketable limit orders is
      A) Rate of price improvement
      B) Average effective spread
      C) Fill rate
      D) Average speed of execution
     Answer Explanation:
     The average effective spread is a comprehensive and useful statistic to
     measure the overall liquidity premium paid by those submitting market
     and marketable limit orders to a market center. The smaller the effective
     spread the better for customers. The effective spread is calculated as
     two times the difference between the execution price and the bid-ask
     midpoint.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                      73 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                   Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                    Question ID: 3096
102) An Alternative Trading System (ATS) must meet heightened
     reporting and record keeping requirements if it attains specified
     trading volume thresholds over what period of time?
      A) The last 12 months
      B) 4 of the last 6 calendar months
      C) 3 of the last 5 calendar months
      D) The last six months
     Answer Explanation:
     The heightened reporting and record keeping requirement is triggered if
     an ATS meets trading volume threshold tests in any 4 of the last 6
     months. For NMS stocks, the threshold is 5% or more of ADTV.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.1.2
                                                                    Question ID: 2304
103) For penny stock disclosure purposes, what defines a contingent
     compensation arrangement?
      A) Compensation is determined and paid after the transaction
      B) Compensation depends on how long the associated person has
     been with the firm
      C) Compensation depends on stock performance
      D) The customer has a choice of how compensation is paid
     Answer Explanation:
     Compensation is determined following the transaction, based on
     aggregate sales volume or other contingencies.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                    Question ID: 3038
104) For transactions in penny stocks on an agency basis, the broker-
     dealer must disclose
      A) the broker-dealer's cost to acquire the shares.
      B) the best independent interdealer bid/offer prices.
      C) prices of the last three transaction in the same stock.
      D) the fact that the bid-ask spread is not unreasonable.
     Answer Explanation:
     The disclosure must include the best independent interdealer bid/offer
     prices obtained through reasonable due diligence. Under the rules
     governing penny stocks this is defined as contacting at least three
     market makers to obtain current quotes.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                     74 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                         http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                   Question ID: 15685
105) Mary Beth, a registered rep, has suggested that a client invest
     through an advisory account managed with discretion by a
     Registered Investment Adviser. She will handle all trades the
     Adviser recommends for the account. What information about
     discretionary authority over this account is her firm required to
     maintain in its books and records?
      A) her firm's legal or compliance approval of the discretionary
     authority
      B) the Investment Adviser's date-of-hire and background information
      C) the client's acknowledgement of the risks of discretionary accounts
      D) dated signatures of the customer and Adviser, granting discretion
     authority
     Answer Explanation:
     For discretionary accounts, firms must capture in their books and
     records a dated signature for each customer and a dated signature for
     each individual who is granted trading authority. Normally, both
     signatures are included on a power of attorney granting discretionary
     trading authority.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8
                                                                    Question ID: 2321
106) Broker-dealer E is a large trader that files disclosure information
     with the SEC. When will it file its Form 13H?
      A) Monthly
      B) Annually
      C) Quarterly
      D) Daily
     Answer Explanation:
     The 13H filing for broker dealers is annual. The Form 13H is due within
     45 days after the calendar year end.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4.3
                                                                    Question ID: 2714
107) How often must broker-dealers make a report on order routing?
      A) Quarterly
      B) Whenever it is requested by the SEC
      C) Monthly
      D) Annually
     Answer Explanation:
     The Rule 606 broker-dealer report on non-directed order routing is due
     quarterly.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                     75 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 3170
108) When must the compensation paid to an associated person of a
     broker-dealer, for selling a penny stock, be disclosed?
      A) There is no specific requirement
      B) At or prior to receipt of the order
      C) At the time of the initial solicitation
      D) With the trade confirmation
     Answer Explanation:
     Broker-dealers must disclose any cash compensation paid to associated
     persons who have communicated with the customer, at or prior to
     receipt of the order.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                     Question ID: 2558
109) In what manner and how often must a broker-dealer inform
     customers that information on their recent order routing is
     available on request?
      A) In writing, at least once every six months
      B) In writing, at least annually
      C) Verbally or in writing, at least once every six month
      D) Verbally or in writing, at least annually
     Answer Explanation:
     Customers must be notified in writing at least annually of their ability to
     request information on recent routing of their orders.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                     Question ID: 3196
110) What term describes the information a reasonable investor would
     consider important in deciding whether to buy, sell or hold a
     security?
      A) Actionable
      B) Material
      C) Time-sensitive
      D) Relevant
     Answer Explanation:
     Any information that can affect the price of a security potentially can be
     material.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.1
                                      76 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2310
111) Information is considered
      A) confidential if it has not generally been released to the public
     through SEC filings or broad-based news channels.
      B) closely-held if it has not generally been released to the public
     through SEC filings or broad-based news channels.
      C) material if it has not generally been released to the public through
     SEC filings or broad-based news channels.
      D) nonpublic if it has not generally been released to the public
     through SEC filings or broad-based news channels.
     Answer Explanation:
     The 34 Act requires broker-dealers to establish, maintain and enforce
     written policies and procedures to prevent misuse of material nonpublic
     information.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                                                    Question ID: 20804
112) Broker-dealer D receives a request from a customer to know the
     identity of venues to which the customer's orders have been
     routed. The request must be answered by providing identities for
     which routed orders?
      A) The five largest orders
      B) Non-directed only
      C) Directed only
      D) Both directed and non-directed
     Answer Explanation:
     On request, a broker-dealer must disclose to a customer the identity of
     venues to which customer orders were routed in the six months before
     the request. This includes both directed and non-directed orders, along
     with transaction times.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2.1
                                      77 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 3258
113) All of the following statements regarding penalties for insider
     trading and securities fraud are true EXCEPT
      A) Violators may be imprisoned for no more than 5 years if proven
     guilty
      B) Both the tipper and tippee can be liable and subject to penalty
     under the Act
      C) A bounty is payable to persons who inform the SEC of insider
     trading activities
      D) Violators may be subject to civil penalties equal to three times the
     profits made or losses avoided
     Answer Explanation:
     Penalties for insider trading and securities fraud exist for both civil and
     criminal violations. Civil penalties may equal up to three times the profits
     made or losses avoided. Criminal penalties include a maximum $5
     million fine and 20 years in prison. Both tippers who share inside
     information, and tippees who may act on it, can be held liable. The SEC
     encourages the reporting of potential insider trading violations and offers
     a bounty to informants.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                                                      Question ID: 2996
114) For index options, the Large Trader threshold is based on
      A) Share volume only
      B) Fair market value only
      C) Both share volume and fair market value
      D) The index multiplier only
     Answer Explanation:
     For determining whether aggregate discretionary trading in index options
     exceeds the threshold, trading volume does not need to be calculated -
     only the fair market value of the options.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                                                      Question ID: 1978
115) According to the penny stock disclosure, an investor should be
     prepared to lose what part of an investment?
      A) 25%
      B) 50%
      C) 75%
      D) 100%
     Answer Explanation:
     The disclosure explicitly states that "you should be prepared to lose your
     whole investment."
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.1
                                      78 of 85
                               KnopmanMarks
                           http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 15683
116) Sally, a registered rep, is told by her compliance officer that she
     must update the customer profiles of several clients for books and
     records purposes. When she asks why, the officer tells her it is to
     help regulators check for compliance with customer-specific
     suitability and know your customer rules. What specific financial
     data should she ask clients to verify or update?
      A) tax bracket, net worth including value of primary residence, and
     investment objectives
      B) annual income for the last three years
      C) annual income and net worth including value of primary residence
      D) annual income, net worth excluding value of primary residence,
     and investment objectives
     Answer Explanation:
     For books and records compliance, firms must maintain complete and
     updated customer account records including customer name, tax ID,
     address, telephone, date of birth, employment/occupation, annual
     income, net worth excluding value of primary residence and investment
     objectives. The last three items cover financial data that is most likely to
     change over time and affect customer-specific suitability.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8
                                                                     Question ID: 25660
117) Regulation Best Interest (BI) requires broker-dealers to apply a
     heightened standard of conduct in each of the following areas
     except
      A) recommending a small business pursue a targeted investment
     strategy based on a recently completed customer survey distributed to
     all firm clients.
      B) advising a retail client on the most appropriate type of account for
     them to open at a broker-dealer.
      C) promoting a series of investment strategies to a married couple
     who have embarked on a new financial game plan created by their
     financial professional.
      D) suggesting that a high net worth client purchase a particular equity
     or debt instrument in their brokerage account.
     Answer Explanation:
     Regulation Best Interest (BI) requires all broker-dealers to adhere to a
     higher standard of care when dealing with their retail clients. Reg BI
     specifically indicates that firms’ must exercise a heightened standard of
     conduct when making recommendation to their retail customers in the
     areas of specific transactions, investment strategies, and types of
     accounts that may be opened at a broker-dealer. Regulation BI does
     not apply to recommendations to institutional customers, such as a small
     business or pension fund. The suitability rule remains applicable to these
     parties.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.3.4
                                       79 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 33789
118) A trader has advance knowledge of a research report that her
     company is about to publish, including a downgrade in the
     company's rating. Independently, online news sites are leaking
     similar negative information about the company. What is she
     allowed to tell her customers about the company?
      A) Only the public information that is widely reported
      B) Any information that is clearly verified, including details of the
     research report that are verified by news
      C) Nothing until the research is published
      D) The fact that research is upcoming and could be market-moving,
     but not any details about the rating
     Answer Explanation:
     A broker-dealer or trader may not establish, increase or liquidate
     inventory based on advance knowledge of the content of a research
     report. Customers cannot be tipped off about the research or changes in
     coverage or ratings. However, customers can be told about widely
     reported news.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6.2
                                                                      Question ID: 2098
119) What are market makers not allowed to do, based on nonpublic
     advance knowledge of the contents or knowledge of research
     reports?
      A) Offer quotes
      B) Buy or sell for their own account
      C) Accept customer orders
      D) Communicate with the media about the stock
     Answer Explanation:
     The rule against trading ahead of research reports prevents altering
     inventory - i.e., changing it up or down. The firm may still enter quotes on
     an agency basis as this will not change the firm's inventory.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                      80 of 85
                                KnopmanMarks
                            http://testprep.knopman.com
                      Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                        Question ID: 3080
120) Broker-dealer R has routed 500 customer orders to various
     execution venues during the past 90 days. BD R must publish a
     report that indicates
      A) The identities of the venues to which all customer orders were
     routed.
      B) The percentage of customer orders which received price
     improvement based on the execution venue to which they were routed.
      C) All venues to which five percent or more of directed orders were
     routed.
      D) The ten venues to which the largest number of non-directed orders
     were routed.
     Answer Explanation:
     Regulation NMS Rule 606 requires that broker-dealers make publicly
     available, on a quarterly basis, a report on its routing of non-directed
     orders in NMS securities. This report must include the identities of the
     ten venues to which the largest number of non-directed orders was
     routed for execution, and any additional venues to which the firm routes
     more than 5% of NON-directed orders.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.2
                                                                        Question ID: 2824
121) For purposes of penny stock disclosures, a broker-dealer can't
     qualify for the disclosure exemption if it has earned more than the
     maximum threshold of total compensation from penny stocks in
     how many months over the last 12?
      A) Six
      B) Three
      C) Twelve
      D) One
     Answer Explanation:
     For purpose of this test, the broker-dealer is given one "free" month in
     every 12. If it fails the test in two consecutive months, it can't qualify for
     the blanket exemption in next 11 months. The maximum commission
     that can be earned from penny stock transactions in the other 11 months
     is 5% of total revenues.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                        81 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2621
122) All of the following statements about the Insider Trading and
     Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 are correct EXCEPT
      A) It authorizes penalties for trading on inside information
      B) It pays a bounty to persons who inform the SEC of insider trading
     abuses
      C) It prohibits insiders from taking short swing profits
      D) It limited the maximum civil penalty against an individual violator to
     treble damages.
     Answer Explanation:
     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 prohibits insiders profiting from
     short swing transactions (purchases and sales within a 6 month period).
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                                                    Question ID: 15681
123) Albert, a registered rep, begins a conversation to discuss a
     proposed investment with a client at 9:42 am. The client agrees to
     buy 200 shares of a stock at 10:05. Albert writes the order ticket at
     10:07 and submits it to an electronic trading system for execution
     at 10:09. It is executed at 10:11. What times must his firm preserve
     in its books and records?
      A) 10:05 and 10:07
      B) 10:05 and 10:09
      C) 9:42 and 10:09
      D) 10:05 and 10:15
     Answer Explanation:
     Firms must maintain records of orders to buy or sell securities that
     include: 1) the time the order was received; and 2) the time of entry
     (when the firm transmits the order for execution). For verbal orders,
     receipt is when the client agrees to the terms of the transaction.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.8.1
                                      82 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                    Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 3209
124) The rule against order-splitting prohibits splitting one order into
     multiple smaller items for purposes of
      A) trade reporting only.
      B) committing a fraudulent act.
      C) either trade execution or reporting.
      D) trade execution only.
     Answer Explanation:
     Order-splitting, also known as tape-shredding, prohibits splitting one
     order into multiple smaller orders for either execution or reporting
     purposes. Often firms engage in order splitting to increase compensation
     or in-kind payments (e.g. soft dollars).
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6
                                                                     Question ID: 2315
125) Company D is as an affiliate of a Large Trader that exercises
     investment discretion over trades in NMS securities. As a
     Securities Affiliate, the discretionary trades of Company D are:
      A) Are counted if Company D's volume reaches 50% of the Large
     Trader's daily or monthly threshold
      B) Are counted if Company D's volume reaches 25% of the Large
     Trader's daily or monthly threshold
      C) Counted towards the Large Trader's 13H trading volume
      D) Not counted towards the Large Trader's 13H trading volume
     Answer Explanation:
     The term Securities Affiliate means an affiliate of a Large Trader that
     exercises investment discretion over NMS securities. These trades are
     included in the Large Trader's trading volume.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.4
                                                                     Question ID: 2137
126) There is no inside bid-ask quote for Issuer Q, a penny stock. When
     doing a trade in Q a market maker should disclose
      A) An estimated bid-ask based on historical trends
      B) The bid-ask of a correspondent market maker
      C) The market maker's bid-ask
      D) A bid-ask of a similar stock
     Answer Explanation:
     When there is no inside bid-ask for a penny stock, a market maker must
     disclose its own bid-ask quote, provided the MM has done three trades
     in that penny stock in the previous five days.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                      83 of 85
                              KnopmanMarks
                          http://testprep.knopman.com
                     Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                      Question ID: 2242
127) Which entities enjoys an exemption from penny stock disclosures?
      A) Broker-dealers acting as agents
      B) Broker-dealers acting as principals
      C) Broker-dealers that derive minimal business from penny stocks
     and are not market makers in the same stocks
      D) Broker-dealers that are market makers in the security
     Answer Explanation:
     A broker-dealer that derives less than 5% of its total securities
     transaction revenue and has NOT served as a market maker in the
     same penny stock in the immediately preceding 12 months is exempt
     from disclosures for penny stock transactions.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.7.2
                                                                      Question ID: 2453
128) Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which of the following
     statements are true?
     I. That maximum prison sentence for violation of insider trading
     rules under the Act is 5 years
     II. The maximum criminal fine for an individual is $5 million
     III. The maximum fine for all persons other than individuals is $25
     million
      A) I and III only
      B) I and II only
      C) II and III only
      D) I, II, and III
     Answer Explanation:
     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 provides for maximum jail
     sentence of up to 20 years. Individual persons may be fined no more
     than $5 million if convicted of violations under the Act. Persons other
     than natural persons (corporations, partnerships, etc.) may be fined up
     to $25 million.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.9.3
                                      84 of 85
                             KnopmanMarks
                        http://testprep.knopman.com
                   Series 57 Top-Off - 8/27/2023 1:15 PM
                                                                     Question ID: 2395
129) Who is responsible for making monthly reports on execution
     quality?
      A) Market makers
      B) FINRA members
      C) Exchanges
      D) Market centers
     Answer Explanation:
     Market centers that execute transactions in NMS securities are required
     to make electronic Rule 605 reports on execution quality available to the
     public monthly.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.2.1
                                                                    Question ID: 26135
130) A trading ahead violation occurs when reps use information
     obtained in research reports to trade ahead of
      A) customers who have not received the research report.
      B) anyone, if the information is non-public.
      C) non-institutional investors.
      D) non-insiders.
     Answer Explanation:
     Trading ahead is the prohibited practice of trading securities based on
     non-public advance knowledge of the content of a research report.
     Textbook Reference: Please see textbook section 7.6.2
                                    85 of 85
